Cryptographic Migration with Implicit Dependencies
Anonymous Submission∗
∗ No Institution given

No contact details given

Abstract—Since the announcement of the PQC NIST standards, various standardization bodies and industry stakeholders have begun migrating protocols and security-related
applications to meet recently announced national and international regulatory PQC migration requirements. Although
replacing individual primitives with existing PQC building
blocks appears feasible, migrating complex, heterogeneous
systems remains challenging due to the multitude of dependencies between individual components as well as security
and cryptographic assets. In this paper, we discuss different
types of dependencies, propose a formal framework, and a
methodology for identifying dependencies between the various components of a complex system, thereby supporting the
migration process towards the use of PQC algorithms. The
proposed methodology utilizes a dependency graph model
to identify implicit and non-obvious dependencies between
cryptographic assets, such as cryptographic primitives, protocols, and keys. To illustrate the methodology and demonstrate its potential, we formulate and analyze a proof-ofconcept algorithm that identifies implicit dependencies and
supports a clustering-based migration strategy, leveraging
dependency-specific test functions and a migration oracle
to validate the correctness of the migrated system resp.
application.
Index Terms—Post-quantum cryptography, cryptographic
migration, dependency graph

1. Introduction
With the advancement of quantum computers and
regarding the growing amount of physical qubits, it has become crucial to consider the transition towards the usage
of post-quantum cryptography (PQC), since the algorithms
of Shor [28] and Grover [13] pose a significant threat
to classical asymmetric cryptographic algorithms with the
existence of a sufficiently scaled quantum computer [21].
One aspect of the challenge is the development of secure
PQC algorithms; the migration of existing systems is also
necessary. Migration is essential for maintaining long-term
security; however, it necessitates meticulous planning,
substantial resources, and collaboration among numerous
stakeholders [15]. Several research groups and agencies
have come up with different migration plans that range
in how abstract they are and what they focus on. Some
offer guidance at the governance level [4], while others
deal with technical issues like how to implement hybrid
constructions and which algorithms to replace [3, 5, 9].
In this work, we focus on the migration steps of identifying dependencies and proposing migration plans. As

the authors of [14, 16] have discussed, clustering mutually
dependent nodes is a critical element in the development
of a migration strategy, which is a sequence of migration
steps that consider the underlying dependencies based on
a graph-based model. As the migration process to PQC
necessitates structural modifications to the system architecture, it is not limited to the replacement of algorithms
within individual components. It also requires a detailed
understanding of cryptographic dependencies between the
components. Because of these dependencies, there are
technical, organizational, and legal limits that need to
be found and built into the migration plan. To resolve
these components, we propose a semi-formal framework
and a graph-based model. In this model, nodes represent
cryptographic assets and system components, while edges
represent either explicit or implicit dependencies. Explicit
dependencies are apparent and primarily defined by structural architectural topologies, whereas implicit dependencies represent non-obvious dependencies that are based on
domain knowledge or non-functional dependencies, such
as security-based dependencies.
In addition, we examine and discuss different kinds
of explicit and implicit dependencies that might occur
during PQC migration. We examine the significance of
these dependencies and suggest a methodology for identifying and managing them, informed by the CBOM concept from the CycloneDX project [22] and the model
in [16]. More specifically, we incorporate a clusteringbased graph model to establish a structured perspective
on cryptographic elements and their explicit dependencies.
After adding implicit dependencies between nodes, which
are often missed in traditional methods, we improve this
model. With an automotive case study, we demonstrate
that dependencies significantly affect the clustering process. We show that cryptographic keys must be considered
alongside because of their impact on components or services. Finally, we develop and evaluate a clustering and
detection algorithm as a proof of concept for the proposed
semi-formal framework.
The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section 2
examines current cryptographic migration strategies, emphasizing dependency graph frameworks, asset identification techniques, and semi-formal models. To demonstrate
various dependency classes in a practical context, the
paper uses a representative automotive use case, which
is introduced in Section. 3. Section 4 revisits the fundamental migration-graph concepts and enhances them to
incorporate cryptographic assets as nodes. In Section 5, an
explicit refinement process and a taxonomy of dependency
types, such as implicit and non-obvious dependencies,

are added to this model. Section 6 formalizes migration
strategies using dependency-specific test functions and
an oracle. In this section, we also present a clustering
and detection algorithm. In the last section, we conclude
and outline future work, while the appendices provide
formal proofs and a machine-readable representation of
the application example.

2. Comparison of Related Migration Models
for Cryptography
As mentioned in the introduction, the transition to
post-quantum cryptography (PQC) is now a major strategic issue for the security of information systems, since the
development of PQC algorithms is only part of the solution. A large-scale migration of existing systems to use
these new algorithms is essential to maintain long-term
security. Since 2016, this issue has been institutionalized
through the efforts of the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST), which initiated an international
process to select the first quantum resistant algorithms
[2]. This process, now mature, has led to the standardization of several key algorithms such as ML-KEM for
encryption [23], and ML-DSA [24] and SLH-DSA[25]
for signatures. At the same time, many national agencies,
such as the NSA in the United States, the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI), French Cybersecurity
Agency (ANSSI), Netherlands Organization for Applied
Scientific Research (NTO), and European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), have published official
guidelines incorporating these new algorithms into their
long term security profiles. The BSI, for example, has
updated its cryptographic recommendations since 2020 in
the German national standard document for cryptographic
primitives to include post quantum primitives [12] and
updated it yearly thereafter.

2.1. Semi-Formal Models for Migration
Cryptographic migration of a system is not only
achieved by a straightforward replacement of the algorithms in the source code; it is far more complex. It
involves a profound transformation of chains of trust, data
formats, key sizes, hardware capabilities and, above all
(what concerns us) dependencies between components,
especially in the PQC context. Therefore, models are
required to support the migration of cryptographic primitives and protocols in systems. Current research aims at
developing those models and methodologies to support the
migration process to enable practitioners to transition from
the use of classical symmetric cryptographic primitives to
the use of PQC.
One of the most recent and promising approaches to
semi-automated cryptographic migration planning is based
on the notion of a structured inventory of cryptographic
assets, as formalized via CBOMs proposed as part of
the OWASP CycloneDX project [22]. The CBOM aims
to provide a comprehensive and interoperable description
of a system’s cryptographic elements: algorithms, keys,
certificates, hardware modules (such as smart cards or
HSMs), libraries, and associated protocols. This inventory
clarifies the implementation and usage relationships between these elements (we will call this type of relationship

functional dependencies). For example, a certificate can
be linked to a public key, itself generated by a specific
algorithm implemented in a cryptographic library used by
an application.
This descriptive approach is supported by several
recommendations from national cybersecurity agencies,
such as ANSSI in France, the BSI in Germany, or TNO
in the Netherlands, which advocate the creation of a
cryptographic inventory as an essential prerequisite for
any migration strategy to post-quantum algorithms [4, 5,
9]. The CBOM provides a standardized and automatable
method for maintaining this inventory in complex and
evolving systems.

2.2. Models for Asset Identification
Following [21], the initial step in the migration process
is to identify the components that require consideration.
The identification of the relevant (cryptographic) assets
is the most relevant activity in the step of identification or diagnosis of the four generic migration process
steps: (1) Identification, (2) Plan, (3) Execution, and (4)
Maintenance1 . Various models have been proposed in the
literature, ranging from purely policy-driven approaches to
risk methodology-inspired approaches and the mentioned
semiformal models. In this section, we provide a background to the existing methodologies in the literature as
a basis for the subsequent discussion.
2.2.1. Policies-driven Approaches. National cybersecurity authorities have published official recommendations
to support the migration to post-quantum cryptography.
These policy-driven approaches are mainly based on the
concept of security strength and provide guidelines for
industry and government agencies. The French cybersecurity agency (ANSSI) follows a policy-driven approach.
This approach [5] emphasizes the principle of caution. The
agency recommends a gradual transition, based on cryptoagility and the use of hybrid architectures combining
proven classical algorithms (e.g. RSA, ECC) and postquantum candidates currently being standardized by NIST.
ANSSI insists on maintaining security levels equivalent to
those defined by its current standards (e.g. 128-bit security
for common uses and 192-bit for sensitive environments).
Therefore, all relevant cryptographic primitives and protocols that use a security level below 128-bit security level
are considered assets relevant for migration.
The BSI follows a similar approach based on their
security philosophy. In [9], the presented approach is
based on the concept of the level of protection required
depending on the sensitivity of the data and systems
concerned. The BSI first recommends a preliminary assessment of existing systems to identify the cryptographic
mechanisms currently in use and their potential exposure
to quantum threats, and handles them as critical assets
for the migration process. On this basis, it advocates
a gradual transition via hybrid solutions (exploiting a
combiner construction to ensure that a classical and postquantum scheme is used, e.g., X-Wing [7]), particularly
1. Sometimes these steps are given alternative names but always aim
at the core operation of identification, prioritization, verification, and
execution.

for widely used communication protocols such as TLS
and IKEv2, as well as for certificate management infrastructures. Finally, it recommends increasing the key sizes
of symmetric algorithms (e.g. from AES-128 to AES256) to compensate for the impact of Grover’s algorithm,
which reduces the effectiveness of symmetric keys in
the presence of a relevant quantum computer. Therefore,
all primitives and protocols with a security level at 128
or below 128-bit security (classical security model) are
considered relevant assets for the transition.
The approach of the organization of TNO is also
policy-driven, but more proactive and practical, domainrelated compared with the one of ANSSI and BSI. First,
they classify the capability to migrate to PQC by three
roles (Urgent Adopter, Regular Adopter, Cryptographic
Expert) representing the knowledge and capabilities of
being able to use PQC. The proposed approach considers
all cryptographic assets used in the organization and data,
as well as the cryptographic assets of suppliers. Then the
policy of identifying if the cryptographic asset is essential
for the migration process is not only bound to the security
level like for the approach of ANSSI and BSI, instead it
depends on multiple factors:
•
•
•
•

Key management of the asset
Security goals connected to the asset
Policies to use it in protocols and protocol versions
Impact on the overall migration plan

2.2.2. Risk Assessment based Identification. An alternative to a policy-driven asset identification is a riskbased approach known from the domain of cybersecurity processes, like threat analysis and risk assessment
(TARA) [18]. A risk-based identification approaches focus
on establishing migration priorities based on the level
of threat and potential impact on the organization. They
involve linking the cryptographic asset inventory with a
structured risk assessment in order to prioritize the items
to be migrated. This approach is particularly relevant in
a context where the resources available for migration are
limited and where some assets have shorter vulnerability
horizons than others.
One representative framework is the Crypto Agility
Risk Assessment Framework (CARAF) [17]. This model
proposes a five-phase approach:
1)

2)

3)

4)

Definition of scope and threat vectors: determine the scope of the analysis (applications,
protocols, critical environments) and specify the
type of threat considered, for example store-now,
decrypt-later attacks made possible by the emergence of large-scale quantum computers.
Structured inventory of cryptographic assets:
identify all elements (algorithms, libraries, certificates, keys, protocols, external services) involved
in system security.
Probability and impact assessment: analyze the
risk associated with each asset by combining its
functional criticality (business impact, regulatory
compliance) and its temporal exposure (lifespan
of protected data, time required to perform a
migration).
Identifying mitigation strategies: determine the
possible actions for each asset (immediate mi-

5)

gration, adoption of hybrid solutions, enhanced
monitoring).
Developing a road-map: establish a prioritized
plan aligned with the organization’s business objectives.

Therefore, it follows a very similar approach like in the
PQC Migration Handbook [4]. In the context of migration
to PQC, [17] makes it possible to directly link cryptographic issues to enterprise risk management practices
and to obtain prioritization based on both technical and
organizational criteria.
At the same time, several strategic road-maps have
been proposed to support the transition. The PQC Migration Roadmap [1], developed by its partners recommends,
states in particular:
1)
2)
3)
4)

Conducting an inventory of the cryptographic
mechanisms used in existing infrastructures,
Assessing their vulnerability to quantum attacks,
Implementing hybrid solutions during the transition phase,
Preparing for frequent updates as PQC standards
evolve.

This document emphasizes the importance of prioritizing
systems with long-term confidentiality requirements, i.e.,
those whose data must remain confidential for several
decades.
These recommendations are supplemented by the
road-map proposed by the European Commission, which
highlights the need for collective and coordinated action
[11]. This document emphasizes that migration cannot
be achieved effectively by a single isolated entity, but
requires collaboration between industry players, government agencies and standardization bodies. It highlights
the importance of alignment between the availability of
PQC standards, product life-cycles (particularly in embedded and automotive systems) and operational deployment
constraints.
Finally, [10] provides a highly detailed operational
framework in the form of an eleven-step iterative process.
These steps include:
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)

identifying architectures and compiling an inventory of assets (CBOMs),
constructing a dependency graph (Enterprise Dependency Digraph),
analyzing the vulnerabilities associated with each
asset (Asset Vulnerability Reports),
assessing the criticality of dependencies,
prioritizing the elements to be migrated (Migration Priority Report),
and finally, developing iterative migration plans
with step-by-step validation.

The key contribution of this document lies in its reproducibility: it provides a methodology that can be systematically applied to different organizational contexts, yielding
comparable results.
2.2.3. Identification due to Vulnerability. The initial
inventory-based identification of cryptographic assets that
need to be migrated may not be enough. Certain components may seem to be of minimal significance from

a functional standpoint; however, they become a priority
when they are associated with documented vulnerabilities, whether they are structural (insufficient key size)
or implementation-related (flaws in libraries or protocols). The procedure outlined by ETSI in [10] accurately
identifies vulnerabilities in cryptographic assets, including
libraries and protocols, by utilizing a given dependency
graph.
The ETSI model is based on the idea that the asset
inventory (e.g., through a CBOM) must be enriched by
mapping the vulnerabilities associated with each cryptographic element. This process, which is expressed in
the Asset Vulnerability Reports, enables the reevaluation
of the criticality of the identified components. ETSI’s
proposed process has a number of important steps. The
initial step is to evaluate the inventory’s correlation with
existing vulnerabilities. Consequently, each cryptographic
asset (algorithm, library, certificate, key, protocol) is correlated with vulnerabilities listed in a vulnerability database
such as CVE2 . After this stage, the potential impact of
each identified vulnerability on the classical security goals
(availability, integrity, confidentiality) is analyzed, and
the likelihoods are determined to obtain a standardized
security metric for each identified asset. After the determination of the risk of the single cryptographic asset is
identified, it is important to consider how this risk could
propagate through the system. Therefore, the dependency
of a cryptographic asset to other algorithms, protocols, and
applications needs to be presented. ETSI models this by
using a directed graph enriched with vulnerability annotations (Enterprise Dependency Digraph) to map dependencies. Depending on the overall threat to the system, a
refined prioritisation is done in order to derive a mitigation
priority plan for a structured transition procedure.

2.3. Approaches based on Dependency Graphs
Beyond approaches based solely on visibility
(CBOM), a major area of research involves modeling
cryptographic dependencies in the form of graphs.
These approaches make it possible to represent complex
relationships between components, detect critical
structures (clusters, cycles) and guide migration strategies
based on topological constraints. Three main contributions
illustrate this approach: the formal model developed by
Loebenberger et al. [16], the analysis framework proposed
by Hasan et al. [14], and the operational methodology of
ETSI, c.f. [10].
The formal model proposed by Loebenberger et al.
[16] is based on a mathematical formalization using graph
theory. In this model, each component to be migrated
is represented by a node, while dependency relationships
(communication, protocol, or regulatory) are modeled by
directed edges. A directed edge from node v to node w
means that a component v depends on w, which implies
that v cannot be migrated without w being migrated first
or simultaneously. This model notably makes it possible
to identify “migration clusters,” i.e., sets of closely related
components that must be migrated together to avoid functional failure. A fundamental result of this approach is
the demonstration that, in a system of size n, the number
2. https://www.cve.org

of independent clusters is asymptotically of the order of
n
log(n) , highlighting that few components can be migrated
in isolation. Other concepts are introduced, such as migration depth (successive chains of dependencies) and
canonical strategies based on optimal topological scheduling. This model sheds light on the intrinsic complexity
of migration, showing that any large-scale project will
inevitably encounter numerous interdependent clusters.
Another dependency model is proposed by Hasan et
al. [14] within a framework called Security Dependency
Analysis (SDA). It directly links cryptographic relevant
business assets to the cryptographic mechanisms that
protect them. Their approach is based on three main
steps: (i) creating an expanded inventory of cryptographic
assets, including not only algorithms and libraries, but
also databases, business processes, and critical services;
(ii) constructing a graph where the nodes represent these
assets and the edges represent security dependency relationships; (iii) analyzing criticality by combining the
sensitivity of the business asset and the cryptographic
robustness of the primitive used. Through this approach,
certain components initially considered secondary become
a priority because they protect data with high regulatory
value or subject to long-term confidentiality constraints.
Hasan et al. therefore enrich structural modeling with a
business and regulatory dimension, filling a blind spot in
purely technical models.
To the best of our knowledge is the third framework
that focuses on dependencies within a guideline from
ETSI. This ETSI TR104016 report [10] proposes an operational and iterative approach, centered on the construction of a directed graph for modeling a so-called Enterprise Dependency Digraph. This graph integrates both
technical dependency relationships (applications, protocols, libraries, keys, certificates) and known vulnerabilities
for each asset, documented in the Asset Vulnerability
Reports. Circular dependencies (e.g., mutually signed certificates) are identified as unbreakable clusters, which can
only be migrated as a whole. The ETSI approach comes
with a set of standardized deliverables (enriched CBOM,
dependency digraphs, vulnerability reports and prioritization reports) to ensure the reproducibility and auditability
of the process. This pragmatic dimension makes it a tool
that can be directly used by organizations wishing to plan
and document their migration.

2.4. Preliminary Comparison of the Approaches
The approaches presented above offer complementary
perspectives on cryptographic migration. Risk assessment
models, such as in [17, 4], enable migration planning to
be linked to organizational risk management practices.
They provide a structured methodological framework but
remain at a relatively abstract level. Roadmaps such as the
PQC Migration Roadmap [4] or the coordinated roadmap
proposed by the EU PQC Workstream [11] provide a
strategic and collective vision, emphasizing the need for
gradual preparation and interorganizational coordination.
However, they do not go into detail about technical dependencies or practical implementation constraints. The ETSI
TR104016 [10] report takes an operational perspective.
It provides a reproducible and auditable methodology
based on inventories (CBOM), dependency graphs and

vulnerability reports. Its main interest lies in the production of standardized deliverables to guide and document
migration at the organizational level. Nevertheless, this
model remains dependent on the quality of the inventories and does not offer a mathematical formalism of
complexity phenomena. The formal model developed by
Loebenberger et al. [16] adopts a rigorous approach based
on graph theory. It highlights the existence of migration
clusters and demonstrates that any large-scale project has
intrinsic complexity. This formalization is an important
theoretical advance but requires exhaustive and precise
knowledge of dependencies, an assumption that is often unrealistic in distributed and dynamic environments,
where dependencies may be implicit. Finally, the framework proposed by Hasan et al. [14] introduces an additional dimension by directly linking business assets to the
cryptographic primitives that protect them. Their Security
Dependency Analysis approach allows migration to be
guided by data sensitivity and regulatory requirements. It
highlights the central role of business security, but relies
on the availability of reliable inventories and the ability
to effectively correlate technical and organizational layers.
In summary, each of these approaches provides essential
elements: CARAF and the road-maps offer a strategic,
risk-oriented vision; ETSI provides a standardized operational methodology; Loebenberger offers a formal theoretical basis; and Hasan links migration to business and
regulatory issues.

3. Description of the Use Case Example

However, one blind spot remains: none of these approaches addresses in detail the importance of the management of cryptographic keys and its impact on the
overall concept of system-level security. Yet key handling
(generation, distribution, storage, revocation) is a critical
dependency that is often implicit, particularly in embedded or distributed environments. In addition, all of these
presented models assume that the identified assets and
their dependencies are mapped into a correct and complete model, meaning that all relevant dependencies are
automatically captured and represented by the inventory
tools [26], [30], [27], [20] or via a CBOM [22] and
the topology of the dependencies is correctly mapped
or presented in a cryptographic dependencies sheet [8].
Hence, it is not assured that all dependencies are directly
captured just by analyzing the software or architecture
topology or the communication traffic regarding the usage
of cryptographic primitives. Dependencies that arise from
security concepts or key dependencies are therefore not
covered by the above-mentioned approaches.

3.1. ECU Component

The lack of explicit consideration of this dimension
weakens the robustness of existing models and justifies
the development of approaches that explicitly integrate
key management and its systemic effects. Therefore, we
will present and discuss a formal framework for modeling
various types of dependencies (obvious and non-obvious
dependencies). Furthermore, we will introduce in the following section, based on the formal framework, methods
to identify additional dependencies and thereby extend
dependency graphs by means of the dependency between
the identified assets.

This application, are secured by ECU specific security
controls or also use services of security controls to ensure
a safe and secure execution of the functionality of the
application.
In our example of our use case, the integrity and
authenticity of all applications are secured by the security
control secure boot. This security control verifies the
complete integrity and authenticity of the software of the
ECU using an RSA signature scheme with a key length
of 2048 bit in the first boot stage and an HMAC-256 in
the second boot stage. In practice, a symmetric scheme

For studying the application of our proposed concept,
we investigated the transformation of a small exemplary
invehicle architecture depicted in the lower right corner
of Fig. 3 and Fig. 2. This experienced-based example
illustrates an automotive scenario with security controls
that are commonly used in practice still today. In both
cases, the example system is based on two simplified
components and one external simplified component (a
server backend). The two invehicle components are a
telecommunication unit (TCU) and a general basic ECU.
The TCU is the only component in this architecture that
can directly communicate with the backend server via a
remote communication channel via TLS 1.2. The communication between the ECU and the TCU is done via
an internal control area network (CAN) bus. Therefore,
the ECU can exchange data with the server via the TCU.
Thereby, this assembles a very simplistic example of a
vehicle architecture of the typical domain-specific architecture, which is still the most common architecture for
small and medium-size combustion engineering cars. It is
a simplified example of the domain-oriented architecture,
because usually the amount of ECUs is not two like in
this example; usually it is between 50 and 80 ECUs in a
small- to medium-sized car.
The primary focus of the subsequent discussion and
description will be the automotive components ECU and
TCU for dependency monitoring.

Every ECU inside a car has some specific vehiclerelevant functions contributing to the overall functionality
of a car; for instance, an ECU for controlling the brakes
so that the car can decelerate or be put to a stop in a
controlled manner via the braking pedal on the driver’s
side. ECUs also have basic maintenance and service functions implemented alongside security controls to ensure
the overall functionality of the ECU in addition to their
specific functions.
The functionality of the ECU in this use case study
is very limited and concentrates only on three application
functions:
•
•

•

Software update manager, which handle the software update of the ECU
Diagnosis services, which provides a maintenance
interface to the ECU for checking and maintenance tasks of the ECU
Invehicle Communication, which is a ECU internal
service of the secure can communication stack

is used as an integrity check for the software due to
verification speed reasons. Hence, the first secure boot
stage uses an asymmetric scheme and verifies only a small
amount of data, usually the cryptographic primitives and
the related keys. Since classical ECUs3 have a monolithic,
statically built firmware, the secure boot not only verifies
the correctness of the application and the other security
controls, but also the integrity and authenticity of other
keys stored in the firmware and used for other security
controls. Hence, if an attacker were to replace the private
and public key pair, in this example Kpr2 and Kpb2 , he
or she could manipulate the software as well as replace
all the other keys of the security controls. In this case,
the integrity of the other security controls depends on
the integrity of the key pair of the secure boot security
control, cf. Fig. 3. The ECU’s internal dependency is not
immediately apparent without domain knowledge. Moreover, the software topology alone doesn’t provide enough
information to extract this dependency, which is why
most inventory tools cannot capture it when generating
CBOMs, cf. Fig. 2.
The security control secure onboard communication is
responsible for ensuring authentic communication via the
CAN bus. Therefore, each CAN frame is secured via a
truncated MAC that is used on the receiving side for the
verification of the authenticity and integrity of the CAN
message, compliant with the AUTOSAR standard Secure
OnBoard Communication [6]. Following the standard, the
MAC is generated using AES-128 CMAC with a key
length of 128 bits, in our example using K1 . Since the
ECU should be able to communicate authentically via the
CAN bus with the TUC employing the AUTOSAR specific Secure onBoard Communication protocol, the TCU
needs to have knowledge of the value of the secret key
K1 . The corresponding key stored inside the TCU used
for the secure Onboard communication is K8 4 . Therefore,
there is a cross device not obvious dependency between
K1 inside the ECU and K8 inside the TCU, cf. Fig. 3 and
Fig. 2, respectively.
Another security control of the ECU is secure software
update which should ensure in combination with the security control secure access the only authentic software can
be installed by authorized personnel. In this example, the
authenticity and integrity of the software of the update
packages is verified by an AES-128 CMAC using K5 5 .
Since, in our example, the software update package is
generated and sealed by the server backend, there is an
obvious dependency between K5 inside the ECU and K17
inside the simplified server backend, cf. Fig. 3.
However, before the update procedure, including the
security control secure software update, is executed, the
access to the memory must be granted via the security control secure access. This security control uses a symmetric
challenge response scheme based on AES-128 with key
3. ECUs using AUTOSAR Classic [29] as basic software platform
4. In our example, the corresponding key K8 for secure OnBoard
Communication from TCU fitting to the key on the ECU K1 has a
different index, because usually the devices are not necessarily manufactured by the same company and thus are interpreted as individual
instances.
5. Using symmetric schemes to verify the authenticity via a sealing
approach is customary in the automotive domain due to the resource
constraints and the verification speed.

K4 as authorization control so that only a user with the
knowledge of K4 gets access to the memory of the ECU
and is allowed to read and write the memory via services.
Therefore, is an attack would get know or get control
over K4 he or she can change every bit of the firmware
on the ECU via maintenance service and direct write
and read access to the memory. Hence, the confidentiality
and integrity of all the other keys stored inside the ECU
depend on the confidentiality of K4 , cf. Fig. 3.

3.2. TCU Component
For our use case study, we strongly focus on the
ECU; therefore, we only focus on the security controls
of the TCU. The TCU has the same security controls
as the ECU, using the same cryptographic primitives,
but also extends the security controls by secure remote
communication. This security control is used to establish
a secure communication channel with the server backend
via TLS1.2, cf., Fig. 2. Consequently, similar to the ECU
case, no obvious dependencies between the key for the
first stage secure Kpr7 and the other keys within the TCU,
nor between the security access control (security access)
K9 and the other keys within the TCU.
Due to the security control, secure remote communication, and the TLS1.2 primitive, additional cryptographic
primitives exist in the TCU that do not exist inside the
ECU. Hence, additional keys exist with also not obvious
dependencies, especially with a strong cross-component
dependency towards the server backend. Therefore, there
is a non-obvious dependency between Kpb12 inside the
TCU and Kpb16 for the signature verification step during
the TLS handshake. A second non-obvious dependency
between keys exists regarding the Diffie-Hellman key
agreement step for the TLS handshake, e.g., Kpb10 inside
the TCU and Kpr14 from the server side.
The secure software update security control of the
TCU is different compared to that of the ECU. In the case
of the TCU, the authenticity of the software is verified by
using an RSA signature scheme using a 2048-bit-long key.
Therefore, there is another cross-component dependency
regarding the public keys Kpb13 on the TCU side and the
private key Kpr18 on the server side, cf. Fig. 3.

4. Basic Definitions of the Dependency Model
Following [16], we model a cryptographic migration
project as a directed graph G = (V, E) where V is the set
of nodes, and E ⊆ V ×V is the set of edges. This graph is
called a migration graph, and it captures the components
to be migrated and their (direct) dependencies. Each node
represents a migration component, i.e., an element of
the infrastructure to be migrated. Components can be of
different types: cryptographic software libraries, complete
software packages, operating systems, network protocols
(TLS, SSH, IPsec, etc.), cryptographic hardware, external
services or APIs used by the system, or even standards
systems comply to. The granularity (the level of detail
at which one chooses to model an infrastructure element
as a single node in the graph) of the nodes depends on
the context and the modeling objective. The granularity of
the nodes considered in [16] is coarse – a node represents

an entire high-level component, e.g., operating systems,
network protocols (TLS, SSH, IPsec).
The edges (v, w) in the set E model the migration
dependencies. We also write v → w instead of the pair
(v, w). An edge v → w is interpreted as “component
v cannot be migrated before w, but could potentially
be migrated at the same time”. These dependencies can
be technical (an application that depends on a library),
protocol-related (version compatibility between communicating systems), regulatory (updates conditioned by a
standard or law), or related to performance and hardware
resources.
A central concept is that of a migration cluster c(v),
defined as the set of components that are mutually dependent on v . In graph theory, this is exactly a strongly connected component6 . All elements of a cluster must be migrated simultaneously, otherwise service disruptions may
occur. A cluster can be reduced to a single autonomous
node or contain several highly interconnected components.
A component (or cluster) is said to be migratable if it has
no outgoing dependencies.
To plan the migration, one can condense the graph into
a cluster graph G/c. In this graph, each node represents a
cluster, and an edge c(v1 ) → c(v2 ) exists if an element of
c(v1 ) depends on an element of c(v2 ). By construction,
G/c is acyclic (a graph without cycles), which allows
for the calculation of a topological order. This order
determines the migration strategies, migration length ℓ(G)
(number of clusters to migrate) and the migration depth
d(G) (maximum length of a chain of dependencies between clusters). A canonical migration strategy consists
of migrating all clusters of the same topological level in
parallel, progressing from level 1 to the last. See Section
3.4 in [16] for details on this.
The migration process in the model follows four steps:
(1) identify a migratable component or cluster according
to the chosen strategy, (2) determine its complete cluster,
(3) migrate this cluster and remove it from the graph along
with its edges, and (4) repeat until the graph is empty. A
fundamental lemma guarantees that there always exists at
least one migratable component in any non-empty finite
graph (cf. Lemma 1 in [16]).
The authors of [16] also identify recurring patterns in
these graphs: isolated components without dependencies,
multiple dependencies on a single element, dependencies
of one element on several others, dependency cycles (often
with two nodes, rarely larger), regulatory or performance
constraints, and classic acyclic graphs for software dependencies.
While this model provides a solid formal basis for representing and analyzing cryptographic migration projects,
it has a central limitation when it comes to capturing
the real complexity of infrastructures: The model assumes
that all existing, migration-relevant dependencies between
components are known. However, in practice, this is often
not the case!
We thus distinguish here between the known, explicit
dependencies and the unknown, implicit dependencies. In
order to be able to detect implicit dependencies, we need a
6. a strongly connected component (SCC) of a directed graph is a
maximal sub-graph in which each pair of vertices is connected by a
path in both directions. In other words, for any pair of vertices u and v
in an SCC, there exists a path from u to v and a path from v to u

more fine-granular view on the involved components. We
thus enrich the graph formalization by considering that
cryptographic keys themselves, algorithms, certificates,
and all other cryptographic primitives can be modelled as
nodes. This changes the granularity of the representation.
It becomes fine-grained: a node v in the authors’ model,
representing a single component, can now correspond in
our model granularity to a collection of several finergrained nodes (e.g., the associated key, the algorithm, and
the services that use it).
In the original model, a migratable cluster is defined
solely by explicit dependencies: it is migratable if no
outgoing edge connects it to another non-migrated cluster.
But in our extension, a cluster can appear migratable from
the explicit perspective while actually being blocked by an
implicit dependency, calling into question the security or
feasibility of its isolated migration.
This structural difference therefore requires a redefinition of cluster formation and validation rules, as well as
an adaptation of migration strategies to account for these
hidden links. It is precisely this extension that we introduce into our formalization, in order to better represent the
operational reality of complex cryptographic migrations.

5. Extensions of Basic Dependencies Models
The graph-based formalization explained in the previous section considers a directed graph G = (V, E) explicitly representing the logical structure of a cryptographic
system in an architecture, which can be derived from a
CBOM representation [22] or from inventory tools like
[26]. We assume that the set of migration components V
is fixed for this model, whereas the set of edges E can
evolve. The initial set E contains all explicit dependencies. Further inspection reveals implicit dependencies and
enriches E in an iterative-incremental process. The following subsection describes this process. The subsequent
subsection gives an overview on dependency types and
provides thereby a basis for goal-oriented inspection and
detection of implicit dependencies.

5.1. Modeling Explicit Model Refinement
We are now going to model explicit model refinement
over successive steps. In a given model at a given step, k
the graph Gk = (V, Ek ) contains the explicit dependencies
given by Ek . We assume here that the set of vertices of the
graphs do not change. We assume further that there is a set
Ē of all dependencies which are relevant for migration,
or relevant dependencies for short. As described in the
previous section, the initial set E0 := E can be e.g.,
derived from a CBOM, and the ultimate goal is to reach
Ē by iterative-incrementally detecting and adding implicit
edges.
The edges Ik := Ē \ Ek that have not yet been
discovered are referred to as implicit edges. Note that by
construction Ik ∩ Ek = ∅ dependencies are either explicit
or implicit, but never both. We will elaborate in Section ??
on how to algorithmically identify implicit dependencies.
Specifically, a valid refinement of the graph Gk is a
graph Gk+1 = (V, Ek+1 ) with implicit dependencies Ik+1
if Ik+1 ⊆ Ik and Ek+1 = Ek ∪ (Ik \ Ik+1 ), i.e., a graph in

2

Explicit
Implicit

a
e

c

g

3
d

f

4

Relevant
Irrelevant
Redundant

b

1

h

5

Figure 1. Dependency graph illustrating explicit (solid) and implicit
(dashed) dependencies among five artifacts. In the picture, the explicit
dependencies a, b, d and f imply redundant dependencies c and g .
Dependencies e are irrelevant if its removal does not imply an implicit
dependency and h is implicit-relevant. In the refinement process h needs
to be made explicit. By definition, implicit–irrelevant dependencies do
not occur.

which some of the previously implicit dependencies got
explicit.
There may exist irrelevant dependencies, as the sets
Ek \ Ē are potentially non-empty. An irrelevant dependency can also be defined as an explicit dependency u →
v whose removal does not add an implicit dependency
u → v to the graph. Irrelevant dependencies “pollute” in
the migration graph and can lead to suboptimal migration
strategies.
There is a third type of dependencies, redundant dependencies. A dependency u → v is redundant if it can
be substituted by a path u →∗ v 7 of explicit dependencies
connecting the same nodes. We illustrate the different
dependency-types in Figure 1.
Further examples for the different dependency types
can also be found in the use case depicted in Fig. 2
and Fig. 3: The solid arrows depict explicit dependencies,
e.g., in the ECU the connection between the SW Update
Manager and the Secure SW Update, whereas dashed
arrows depict implicit dependencies, e.g., the bidirectional
shared key connection between K1 in the ECU and K8
in the TCU. The connection between Secure SW Update
and Cryptolib in the ECU is redundant, as there exists
a path from Secure SW Update via Secure Access to
Cryptolib. The use case does not contain any irrelevant
explicit dependencies.
If Gk+1 is a refinement of the graph Gk in the above
sense, we write Gk ≼ Gk+1 . The whole refinement
process
(V, E) = G = G0 ≼ G2 ≼ · · · ≼ Gm = (V, Ē)

starts with a dependency graph G0 and refines the graph
until Gm it contains all relevant dependencies.

5.2. Taxonomy of dependencies
Beyond the previous classification (explicit/implicit,
relevant/irrelevant, redundant), dependencies can also be
characterized according to their functional nature within
the system. Generally, whether explicit or implicit, dependencies are based on two fundamental relationships:
7. The notation u →∗ v means that there is a transitive path from u
to v via the relation →.

dependsOn and provides, which respectively describe the links of use and provision of services. Explicit
dependencies constitute only the visible instances of these
relationships, as they appear in architectural models or
documentation. These relationships allow dependencies to
be grouped into several functional subcategories [16, 22].
Protocol dependencies. They link a protocol to
the algorithms and cryptographic hardware it uses. For
example, in Fig. 2, TLS 1.3 relies on ECDH for key
exchange, AES-GCM for encryption, and SHA-256 for
integrity. In a distributed context, a high-performance
computing (TCU) environment may implement TLS 1.3
with a specific configuration, while a remote server uses
the same version of the protocol with potentially different
cryptographic suites. Analyzing these dependencies makes
it possible to identify commonalities or differences between configurations and assess the systemic impact of
a vulnerability: compromising a primitive weakens the
entire protocol and, consequently, all entities that use it.
Functional dependencies. Functional dependencies correspond to direct technical relationships in which
one component relies on another to perform its cryptographic operations. They are generally the most visible
and easiest to identify, as they often appear in SBOM or
CBOM inventories. A classic example is an application
that depends on a cryptographic library, such as OpenSSL,
to perform encryption, signing, or hashing operations.
In such a case, the application can only be migrated
to post-quantum algorithms if the underlying library already supports these new algorithms. Structurally, these
relationships are often represented in a Cryptographic
Bill of Materials (CBOM) by dependsOn pairs, which
explicitly specify that a component A can only function
in the presence of a component B .
Figure 2 (from our study; detailed in Sect. 3) highlights these functional dependencies, shown in yellow. It
shows how application layers, cryptographic libraries and
algorithms interlock. This visual representation illustrates:
•
•
•

the potential depth of dependency chains,
the need to analyze each relationship to avoid
incompatibilities,
the fact that migration cannot be reduced to a
simple substitution of algorithms, but must be
designed as a coordinated sequence of transformations.

Communication dependencies. Communication
dependencies concern relationships between components
that exchange data protected by standardized cryptographic protocols, such as TLS. Unlike functional dependencies, which describe an internal link for using a library,
communication dependencies are expressed through an
interoperability constraint between communicating entities. In CBOMs [22], communication dependencies can be
made visible using the provides fields, which describe
the services or algorithms offered by a component. For
example, a cryptographic library may provide a set of
primitives, while other components express their dependency via dependsOn relationships. This model allows
reasoning not only in terms of files or packages, but more
importantly in terms of the cryptographic services actually
exchanged.

Electronic Control Unit (ECU)
SW update
manager

Telecommunication Unit (TCU)
Diagnosis
service

Invehicle
Communication

Server - Backend

Secure SW
update

Secure onboard
communication

Secure Boot

Generate SW
package for
Secure SW
update

SHA384

Secure remote
communication

TLS1.2
<latexit sha1_base64="8ynJTLRY2eKSX9amrY91FwNgciU=">AAAB7XicdVDJSgNBEK2JW4xb1KOXxiB4GmaCTOIt4EXwEsEskAyhp9NJ2vR0D909QhjyD148KOLV//Hm39hZBNcHBY/3qqiqFyWcaeN5705uZXVtfSO/Wdja3tndK+4fNLVMFaENIrlU7QhrypmgDcMMp+1EURxHnLai8cXMb91RpZkUN2aS0DDGQ8EGjGBjpeZVL/Mr016x5LneWRCcV9Fv4rveHCVYot4rvnX7kqQxFYZwrHXH9xITZlgZRjidFrqppgkmYzykHUsFjqkOs/m1U3RilT4aSGVLGDRXv05kONZ6Eke2M8ZmpH96M/Evr5OaQTXMmEhSQwVZLBqkHBmJZq+jPlOUGD6xBBPF7K2IjLDCxNiACjaEz0/R/6RZdv3ADa7PSrXyMo48HMExnIIPFajBJdShAQRu4R4e4cmRzoPz7LwsWnPOcuYQvsF5/QCS+Y8e</latexit>

Secure SW
update

Secure Boot

Secure onboard
communication

K17

Secure
Access

Secure remote
communication

Kpb16
<latexit sha1_base64="KrAq9af5NseKeV59vgMqigo1om8=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSlxLoruBHcVLAPaEOZTCft0MkkzkyEEvoTblwo4tbfceffOE0r+Dxw4XDOvdx7T5BwprTjvFuFldW19Y3iZmlre2d3r7x/0FZxKgltkZjHshtgRTkTtKWZ5rSbSIqjgNNOMLmY+507KhWLxY2eJtSP8EiwkBGsjdS9GmRJ4HqzQbni2E7N887r6DdxbSdHBZZoDspv/WFM0ogKTThWquc6ifYzLDUjnM5K/VTRBJMJHtGeoQJHVPlZfu8MnRhliMJYmhIa5erXiQxHSk2jwHRGWI/VT28u/uX1Uh3W/YyJJNVUkMWiMOVIx2j+PBoySYnmU0MwkczcisgYS0y0iahkQvj8FP1P2lXb9WzvulZpVJdxFOEIjuEUXDiDBlxCE1pAgMM9PMKTdWs9WM/Wy6K1YC1nDuEbrNcPHuiQAw==</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="3JxRPaJeo4lRUxG+au1NzIiTGvA=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSljXVXcCO4qWAf0IYymU7aoZNJnJkIJfQn3LhQxK2/486/cfoQfB64cDjnXu69J0g4U9px3q3cyura+kZ+s7C1vbO7V9w/aKk4lYQ2Scxj2QmwopwJ2tRMc9pJJMVRwGk7GF/M/PYdlYrF4kZPEupHeChYyAjWRupc9bNEutVpv1hybKfieec19Ju4tjNHCZZo9ItvvUFM0ogKTThWqus6ifYzLDUjnE4LvVTRBJMxHtKuoQJHVPnZ/N4pOjHKAIWxNCU0mqtfJzIcKTWJAtMZYT1SP72Z+JfXTXVY8zMmklRTQRaLwpQjHaPZ82jAJCWaTwzBRDJzKyIjLDHRJqKCCeHzU/Q/aZVt17O960qpXl7GkYcjOIZTcOEM6nAJDWgCAQ738AhP1q31YD1bL4vWnLWcOYRvsF4/ADXTkBI=</latexit>

AES256
GCM

AES128
ECB

<latexit sha1_base64="KsxkpiBn6S1rS716vsBCpuPSoOU=">AAAB73icdVDLSgNBEOz1GeMr6tHLYBA8LbPRbHIMeBG8RDAPSJYwO5kkQ2Zn15lZISz5CS8eFPHq73jzb5w8BBUtaCiquunuChPBtcH4w1lZXVvf2Mxt5bd3dvf2CweHTR2nirIGjUWs2iHRTHDJGoYbwdqJYiQKBWuF48uZ37pnSvNY3ppJwoKIDCUfcEqMldrXvSxRHp72CkXsYr+CMUbYLePKue9bUrKsWkaei+cowhL1XuG9249pGjFpqCBadzycmCAjynAq2DTfTTVLCB2TIetYKknEdJDN752iU6v00SBWtqRBc/X7REYirSdRaDsjYkb6tzcT//I6qRlUg4zLJDVM0sWiQSqQidHsedTnilEjJpYQqri9FdERUYQaG1HehvD1KfqfNEuu57v+zUWxVlrGkYNjOIEz8KACNbiCOjSAgoAHeIJn5855dF6c10XrirOcOYIfcN4+Af+jj+0=</latexit>

HMAC
SHA256

RSA2048

<latexit sha1_base64="3s+Mo2pFEvW/WwmHu1TYJGv7JLo=">AAAB7HicdVBNS8NAEJ34WetX1aOXxSJ4Cknpl7eCF8FLBdMW2lA22027dLMJuxuhhP4GLx4U8eoP8ua/cdtGUNEHA4/3ZpiZFyScKe04H9ba+sbm1nZhp7i7t39wWDo67qg4lYR6JOax7AVYUc4E9TTTnPYSSXEUcNoNplcLv3tPpWKxuNOzhPoRHgsWMoK1kbybYVabD0tlx645bqXZRI7tLGFIpVZtVC+RmytlyNEelt4Ho5ikERWacKxU33US7WdYakY4nRcHqaIJJlM8pn1DBY6o8rPlsXN0bpQRCmNpSmi0VL9PZDhSahYFpjPCeqJ+ewvxL6+f6rDpZ0wkqaaCrBaFKUc6RovP0YhJSjSfGYKJZOZWRCZYYqJNPkUTwten6H/Sqdhu3a7fVsutSh5HAU7hDC7AhQa04Bra4AEBBg/wBM+WsB6tF+t11bpm5TMn8APW2yffaY61</latexit>

K5

<latexit sha1_base64="Bl2LDgiZ5LAQKvPOMcfNZQlcu5U=">AAAB7HicdVBNS8NAEJ34WetX1aOXxSJ4KklIP7wVvAheKpi20Iay2W7bpZtN2N0IJfQ3ePGgiFd/kDf/jds2goo+GHi8N8PMvDDhTGnb/rDW1jc2t7YLO8Xdvf2Dw9LRcVvFqSTUJzGPZTfEinImqK+Z5rSbSIqjkNNOOL1a+J17KhWLxZ2eJTSI8FiwESNYG8m/GWTefFAq25Wq7biNBrIr9hKGuFWv7l0iJ1fKkKM1KL33hzFJIyo04VipnmMnOsiw1IxwOi/2U0UTTKZ4THuGChxRFWTLY+fo3ChDNIqlKaHRUv0+keFIqVkUms4I64n67S3Ev7xeqkeNIGMiSTUVZLVolHKkY7T4HA2ZpETzmSGYSGZuRWSCJSba5FM0IXx9iv4nbbfi1Cq1W6/cdPM4CnAKZ3ABDtShCdfQAh8IMHiAJ3i2hPVovVivq9Y1K585gR+w3j4B3eSOtA==</latexit>

Kpb2
<latexit sha1_base64="DHu0w+0gqislQePGhZ8KGaQScyg=">AAAB7nicdVDLSsNAFL3xWeur6tLNYBFchST05a7gRnBTwT6gDWUynbRDJ5MwMxFK6Ee4caGIW7/HnX/jtI2gogcuHM65l3vvCRLOlHacD2ttfWNza7uwU9zd2z84LB0dd1ScSkLbJOax7AVYUc4EbWumOe0lkuIo4LQbTK8WfveeSsVicadnCfUjPBYsZARrI3VvhlkSePNhqezYVcf1Gg3k2M4ShnjVSr1yidxcKUOO1rD0PhjFJI2o0IRjpfquk2g/w1Izwum8OEgVTTCZ4jHtGypwRJWfLc+do3OjjFAYS1NCo6X6fSLDkVKzKDCdEdYT9dtbiH95/VSHDT9jIkk1FWS1KEw50jFa/I5GTFKi+cwQTCQztyIywRITbRIqmhC+PkX/k45nuzW7dlspN708jgKcwhlcgAt1aMI1tKANBKbwAE/wbCXWo/Viva5a16x85gR+wHr7BGd4j5g=</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="IYNai0B5dFwNtFQY87OI0Kljcyg=">AAAB7HicdVBNS8NAEJ3Ur1q/qh69LBbBU0hqv7wVvAheKpi20Iay2W7bpZtN2N0IJfQ3ePGgiFd/kDf/jds2goo+GHi8N8PMvCDmTGnH+bBya+sbm1v57cLO7t7+QfHwqK2iRBLqkYhHshtgRTkT1NNMc9qNJcVhwGknmF4t/M49lYpF4k7PYuqHeCzYiBGsjeTdDNKL+aBYcuyq45YbDeTYzhKGlKuVeuUSuZlSggytQfG9P4xIElKhCcdK9Vwn1n6KpWaE03mhnygaYzLFY9ozVOCQKj9dHjtHZ0YZolEkTQmNlur3iRSHSs3CwHSGWE/Ub28h/uX1Ej1q+CkTcaKpIKtFo4QjHaHF52jIJCWazwzBRDJzKyITLDHRJp+CCeHrU/Q/aZdtt2bXbiulZjmLIw8ncArn4EIdmnANLfCAAIMHeIJnS1iP1ov1umrNWdnMMfyA9fYJ3F+Osw==</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="g6iHyxA4J/DcL/xDkLGt9jQubB8=">AAAB7nicdVDLSsNAFL3xWeur6tLNYBFchST05a7gRnBTwT6gDWUynbRDJ5MwMxFK6Ee4caGIW7/HnX/jtI2gogcuHM65l3vvCRLOlHacD2ttfWNza7uwU9zd2z84LB0dd1ScSkLbJOax7AVYUc4EbWumOe0lkuIo4LQbTK8WfveeSsVicadnCfUjPBYsZARrI3VvhlkivfmwVHbsquN6jQZybGcJQ7xqpV65RG6ulCFHa1h6H4xikkZUaMKxUn3XSbSfYakZ4XReHKSKJphM8Zj2DRU4osrPlufO0blRRiiMpSmh0VL9PpHhSKlZFJjOCOuJ+u0txL+8fqrDhp8xkaSaCrJaFKYc6RgtfkcjJinRfGYIJpKZWxGZYImJNgkVTQhfn6L/Scez3Zpdu62Um14eRwFO4QwuwIU6NOEaWtAGAlN4gCd4thLr0XqxXleta1Y+cwI/YL19An/Yj6g=</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="WglxYiSZzQaGLf2f8+0pzcRl5Bs=">AAAB7HicdVBNS8NAEJ34WetX1aOXxSJ4Cknpl7eCF8FLBdMW2lA22027dLMJuxuhhP4GLx4U8eoP8ua/cdtGUNEHA4/3ZpiZFyScKe04H9ba+sbm1nZhp7i7t39wWDo67qg4lYR6JOax7AVYUc4E9TTTnPYSSXEUcNoNplcLv3tPpWKxuNOzhPoRHgsWMoK1kbybYebOh6WyY9cct9JsIsd2ljCkUqs2qpfIzZUy5GgPS++DUUzSiApNOFaq7zqJ9jMsNSOczouDVNEEkyke076hAkdU+dny2Dk6N8oIhbE0JTRaqt8nMhwpNYsC0xlhPVG/vYX4l9dPddj0MyaSVFNBVovClCMdo8XnaMQkJZrPDMFEMnMrIhMsMdEmn6IJ4etT9D/pVGy3btdvq+VWJY+jAKdwBhfgQgNacA1t8IAAgwd4gmdLWI/Wi/W6al2z8pkT+AHr7RPZVY6x</latexit>

K1

AES128
ECB

<latexit sha1_base64="I2ViheU1HkLzdUTxXxzdxmTR9jY=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSlxLoruBHcVLAPaEOZTCft0MkkzkyEEvoTblwo4tbfceffOE0r+Dxw4XDOvdx7T5BwprTjvFuFldW19Y3iZmlre2d3r7x/0FZxKgltkZjHshtgRTkTtKWZ5rSbSIqjgNNOMLmY+507KhWLxY2eJtSP8EiwkBGsjdS9GmSJdGuzQbni2E7N887r6DdxbSdHBZZoDspv/WFM0ogKTThWquc6ifYzLDUjnM5K/VTRBJMJHtGeoQJHVPlZfu8MnRhliMJYmhIa5erXiQxHSk2jwHRGWI/VT28u/uX1Uh3W/YyJJNVUkMWiMOVIx2j+PBoySYnmU0MwkczcisgYS0y0iahkQvj8FP1P2lXb9WzvulZpVJdxFOEIjuEUXDiDBlxCE1pAgMM9PMKTdWs9WM/Wy6K1YC1nDuEbrNcPNE6QEQ==</latexit>

K3

Kpb13
<latexit sha1_base64="TxpTyZErhY+Dat2jMFo4QoxLJDI=">AAAB73icdVDJSgNBEK2JW4xb1KOXxiB4GnoSM8kx4EXwEsEskAyhp9OTNOlZ7O4RwpCf8OJBEa/+jjf/xs4iqOiDgsd7VVTV8xPBlcb4w8qtrW9sbuW3Czu7e/sHxcOjtopTSVmLxiKWXZ8oJnjEWpprwbqJZCT0Bev4k8u537lnUvE4utXThHkhGUU84JRoI3WvB1niO5XZoFjCNnZrGGOE7SquVVzXkLJh9SpybLxACVZoDorv/WFM05BFmgqiVM/BifYyIjWngs0K/VSxhNAJGbGeoREJmfKyxb0zdGaUIQpiaSrSaKF+n8hIqNQ09E1nSPRY/fbm4l9eL9VB3ct4lKSaRXS5KEgF0jGaP4+GXDKqxdQQQiU3tyI6JpJQbSIqmBC+PkX/k3bZdlzbvbkoNcqrOPJwAqdwDg7UoAFX0IQWUBDwAE/wbN1Zj9aL9bpszVmrmWP4AevtE+vCj+A=</latexit>

AES128
CMAC

Kpr10
<latexit sha1_base64="p0+zPjNPpRIYg3JbuZrXeF9t9IA=">AAAB7HicdVDLSgNBEOyNrxhfUY9eBoPgaZmNZpNjwIvgJYJ5QBLC7GQ2GTI7u8zMCmHJN3jxoIhXP8ibf+PkIahoQUNR1U13V5AIrg3GH05ubX1jcyu/XdjZ3ds/KB4etXScKsqaNBax6gREM8ElaxpuBOskipEoEKwdTK7mfvueKc1jeWemCetHZCR5yCkxVmreDLLabFAsYRf7VYwxwm4FVy9835KyZbUK8ly8QAlWaAyK771hTNOISUMF0brr4cT0M6IMp4LNCr1Us4TQCRmxrqWSREz3s8WxM3RmlSEKY2VLGrRQv09kJNJ6GgW2MyJmrH97c/Evr5uasNbPuExSwyRdLgpTgUyM5p+jIVeMGjG1hFDF7a2Ijoki1Nh8CjaEr0/R/6RVdj3f9W8vS/XyKo48nMApnIMHVajDNTSgCRQ4PMATPDvSeXRenNdla85ZzRzDDzhvn/UwjsQ=</latexit>

K8

HMAC
SHA256
<latexit sha1_base64="MALKzjthbaXpwQWbqV76BnwzfVo=">AAAB7HicdVBNSwMxEJ2tX7V+VT16CRbB05JWu+2x4EXwUsFtC+1SsmnahmazS5IVytLf4MWDIl79Qd78N6Yfgoo+GHi8N8PMvDARXBuMP5zc2vrG5lZ+u7Czu7d/UDw8auk4VZT5NBax6oREM8El8w03gnUSxUgUCtYOJ1dzv33PlOaxvDPThAURGUk+5JQYK/k3/cyb9Ysl7GKvhjFG2K3i2oXnWVKxrF5FZRcvUIIVmv3ie28Q0zRi0lBBtO6WcWKCjCjDqWCzQi/VLCF0Qkasa6kkEdNBtjh2hs6sMkDDWNmSBi3U7xMZibSeRqHtjIgZ69/eXPzL66ZmWA8yLpPUMEmXi4apQCZG88/RgCtGjZhaQqji9lZEx0QRamw+BRvC16fof9KquGXP9W4vS43KKo48nMApnEMZatCAa2iCDxQ4PMATPDvSeXRenNdla85ZzRzDDzhvn/ImjsI=</latexit>

K6

RSA2048

Kpb7
<latexit sha1_base64="Io/StyVG/Xr1qjoUYiaiHf1FHWo=">AAAB7nicdVDLSgMxFM3UV62vqks3wSK4GjLVznRZcCO4qWAf0A4lk2ba0EwmJBmhDP0INy4Ucev3uPNvTB+Cih64cDjnXu69J5KcaYPQh1NYW9/Y3Cpul3Z29/YPyodHbZ1mitAWSXmquhHWlDNBW4YZTrtSUZxEnHaiydXc79xTpVkq7sxU0jDBI8FiRrCxUudmkMsomA3KFeQiP0AIQeTWUHDh+5ZULavXoOeiBSpgheag/N4fpiRLqDCEY617HpImzLEyjHA6K/UzTSUmEzyiPUsFTqgO88W5M3hmlSGMU2VLGLhQv0/kONF6mkS2M8FmrH97c/Evr5eZuB7mTMjMUEGWi+KMQ5PC+e9wyBQlhk8twUQxeyskY6wwMTahkg3h61P4P2lXXc93/dvLSqO6iqMITsApOAceCEADXIMmaAECJuABPIFnRzqPzovzumwtOKuZY/ADztsngEmPqQ==</latexit>

Kpb11
<latexit sha1_base64="pdSV13NnYKSUugsyzxL8tHbBX+w=">AAAB73icdVDLSgNBEOz1GeMr6tHLYBA8LbPRbHIMeBG8RDAPSJYwO5kkQ2Zn15lZISz5CS8eFPHq73jzb5w8BBUtaCiquunuChPBtcH4w1lZXVvf2Mxt5bd3dvf2CweHTR2nirIGjUWs2iHRTHDJGoYbwdqJYiQKBWuF48uZ37pnSvNY3ppJwoKIDCUfcEqMldrXvSwJPW/aKxSxi/0Kxhhht4wr575vScmyahl5Lp6jCEvUe4X3bj+macSkoYJo3fFwYoKMKMOpYNN8N9UsIXRMhqxjqSQR00E2v3eKTq3SR4NY2ZIGzdXvExmJtJ5Eoe2MiBnp395M/MvrpGZQDTIuk9QwSReLBqlAJkaz51GfK0aNmFhCqOL2VkRHRBFqbER5G8LXp+h/0iy5nu/6NxfFWmkZRw6O4QTOwIMK1OAK6tAACgIe4AmenTvn0XlxXhetK85y5gh+wHn7BOi4j94=</latexit>

Kpb12
<latexit sha1_base64="bGwe8jhhBta8EZ0PbeLNSY8xRAQ=">AAAB73icdVDJSgNBEK1xjXGLevTSGARPQ89oJjkGvAheIpgFkiH0dHqSJj2L3T1CGPITXjwo4tXf8ebf2FkEFX1Q8Hiviqp6QSq40hh/WCura+sbm4Wt4vbO7t5+6eCwpZJMUtakiUhkJyCKCR6zpuZasE4qGYkCwdrB+HLmt++ZVDyJb/UkZX5EhjEPOSXaSJ3rfp4Gjjvtl8rYxl4VY4ywXcHVc88zxDWsVkGOjecowxKNfum9N0hoFrFYU0GU6jo41X5OpOZUsGmxlymWEjomQ9Y1NCYRU34+v3eKTo0yQGEiTcUazdXvEzmJlJpEgemMiB6p395M/MvrZjqs+TmP00yzmC4WhZlAOkGz59GAS0a1mBhCqOTmVkRHRBKqTURFE8LXp+h/0nJtx7O9m4ty3V3GUYBjOIEzcKAKdbiCBjSBgoAHeIJn6856tF6s10XrirWcOYIfsN4+Aeo9j98=</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="zBqWZPl193xeSdoPpqvaw+GnAgU=">AAAB73icdVDLSgNBEOz1GeMr6tHLYBA8LbPRbHIMeBG8RDAPSJYwO5kkQ2Zn15lZISz5CS8eFPHq73jzb5w8BBUtaCiquunuChPBtcH4w1lZXVvf2Mxt5bd3dvf2CweHTR2nirIGjUWs2iHRTHDJGoYbwdqJYiQKBWuF48uZ37pnSvNY3ppJwoKIDCUfcEqMldrXvSxRnjftFYrYxX4FY4ywW8aVc9+3pGRZtYw8F89RhCXqvcJ7tx/TNGLSUEG07ng4MUFGlOFUsGm+m2qWEDomQ9axVJKI6SCb3ztFp1bpo0GsbEmD5ur3iYxEWk+i0HZGxIz0b28m/uV1UjOoBhmXSWqYpItFg1QgE6PZ86jPFaNGTCwhVHF7K6Ijogg1NqK8DeHrU/Q/aZZcz3f9m4tirbSMIwfHcAJn4EEFanAFdWgABQEP8ATPzp3z6Lw4r4vWFWc5cwQ/4Lx9AgE3j+4=</latexit>

Kpr7

Kpr2

Kpr14

Implicite dependencies:
1. Security dependency: Shared keys
2. Security dependency: Secure boot
3. Security dependency: Secure Access
4. Communication dependency
5. Functional dependency

Kpr11

K4
<latexit sha1_base64="UMuhbYdyjZ+rBdQmhtFGv3iDXAU=">AAAB7nicdVDLSgMxFM3UV62vqks3wSK4GjLVznRZcCO4qWAf0A4lk2ba0EwmJBmhDP0INy4Ucev3uPNvTB+Cih64cDjnXu69J5KcaYPQh1NYW9/Y3Cpul3Z29/YPyodHbZ1mitAWSXmquhHWlDNBW4YZTrtSUZxEnHaiydXc79xTpVkq7sxU0jDBI8FiRrCxUudmkEsVzAblCnKRHyCEIHJrKLjwfUuqltVr0HPRAhWwQnNQfu8PU5IlVBjCsdY9D0kT5lgZRjidlfqZphKTCR7RnqUCJ1SH+eLcGTyzyhDGqbIlDFyo3ydynGg9TSLbmWAz1r+9ufiX18tMXA9zJmRmqCDLRXHGoUnh/Hc4ZIoSw6eWYKKYvRWSMVaYGJtQyYbw9Sn8n7Srrue7/u1lpVFdxVEEJ+AUnAMPBKABrkETtAABE/AAnsCzI51H58V5XbYWnNXMMfgB5+0TmKmPuQ==</latexit>

Kpb14

K9

<latexit sha1_base64="BSJx6wjM/cgo/ZR+b8eyuJYZyZg=">AAAB73icdVDLSgNBEOz1GeMr6tHLYBA8LbPRbHIMeBG8RDAPSJYwO5kkQ2Zn15lZISz5CS8eFPHq73jzb5w8BBUtaCiquunuChPBtcH4w1lZXVvf2Mxt5bd3dvf2CweHTR2nirIGjUWs2iHRTHDJGoYbwdqJYiQKBWuF48uZ37pnSvNY3ppJwoKIDCUfcEqMldrXvSwJPTztFYrYxX4FY4ywW8aVc9+3pGRZtYw8F89RhCXqvcJ7tx/TNGLSUEG07ng4MUFGlOFUsGm+m2qWEDomQ9axVJKI6SCb3ztFp1bpo0GsbEmD5ur3iYxEWk+i0HZGxIz0b28m/uV1UjOoBhmXSWqYpItFg1QgE6PZ86jPFaNGTCwhVHF7K6Ijogg1NqK8DeHrU/Q/aZZcz3f9m4tirbSMIwfHcAJn4EEFanAFdWgABQEP8ATPzp3z6Lw4r4vWFWc5cwQ/4Lx9Auczj90=</latexit>

AES128
CMAC

RSA2048

<latexit sha1_base64="9sui45sGooEqjp7rjGJ2C7IPYR8=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSlxLoruBHcVLAPaEOZTCft0MkkzkyEEvoTblwo4tbfceffOE0r+Dxw4XDOvdx7T5BwprTjvFuFldW19Y3iZmlre2d3r7x/0FZxKgltkZjHshtgRTkTtKWZ5rSbSIqjgNNOMLmY+507KhWLxY2eJtSP8EiwkBGsjdS9GmRJ4NZmg3LFsZ2a553X0W/i2k6OCizRHJTf+sOYpBEVmnCsVM91Eu1nWGpGOJ2V+qmiCSYTPKI9QwWOqPKz/N4ZOjHKEIWxNCU0ytWvExmOlJpGgemMsB6rn95c/MvrpTqs+xkTSaqpIItFYcqRjtH8eTRkkhLNp4ZgIpm5FZExlphoE1HJhPD5KfqftKu269neda3SqC7jKMIRHMMpuHAGDbiEJrSAAId7eIQn69Z6sJ6tl0VrwVrOHMI3WK8fG96QAQ==</latexit>

SHA384

DH

Kpr18
<latexit sha1_base64="TmXxDDueuNigHQiyDSZnHhoOuJI=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSlxLgruBHcVLAPaEOZTCft0MkkzkyEEvoTblwo4tbfceffOH0IPg9cOJxzL/feE6acKe0471ZhZXVtfaO4Wdra3tndK+8ftFSSSUKbJOGJ7IRYUc4EbWqmOe2kkuI45LQdji9mfvuOSsUScaMnKQ1iPBQsYgRrI3Wu+nkauv60X644tlPzvHMf/Sau7cxRgSUa/fJbb5CQLKZCE46V6rpOqoMcS80Ip9NSL1M0xWSMh7RrqMAxVUE+v3eKTowyQFEiTQmN5urXiRzHSk3i0HTGWI/UT28m/uV1Mx35Qc5EmmkqyGJRlHGkEzR7Hg2YpETziSGYSGZuRWSEJSbaRFQyIXx+iv4nrarterZ3XavUq8s4inAEx3AKLpxBHS6hAU0gwOEeHuHJurUerGfrZdFasJYzh/AN1usHIfKQBQ==</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="+zHWXRXcyQhTvw04sOIFNyuZ5xU=">AAAB7HicdVDLSgNBEOz1GeMr6tHLYBA8LZNoNvEW8CJ4iWAekCxhdjKbDJmdXWZmhbDkG7x4UMSrH+TNv3HyEFS0oKGo6qa7K0gE1wbjD2dldW19YzO3ld/e2d3bLxwctnScKsqaNBax6gREM8ElaxpuBOskipEoEKwdjK9mfvueKc1jeWcmCfMjMpQ85JQYKzVv+tnltF8oYhd7VYwxwm4FV889z5KyZbUKKrl4jiIs0egX3nuDmKYRk4YKonW3hBPjZ0QZTgWb5nupZgmhYzJkXUsliZj2s/mxU3RqlQEKY2VLGjRXv09kJNJ6EgW2MyJmpH97M/Evr5uasOZnXCapYZIuFoWpQCZGs8/RgCtGjZhYQqji9lZER0QRamw+eRvC16fof9IquyXP9W4vivXyMo4cHMMJnEEJqlCHa2hAEyhweIAneHak8+i8OK+L1hVnOXMEP+C8fQL2tY7F</latexit>

Kpb10

DH

AES256
GCM

Kpb18

Certificate
Cryptolib

Certificate

AES128
CMAC

<latexit sha1_base64="LROzVsdcW2Odf/LvzD3Z6yqgqKs=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSljXVXcCO4qWAf0IYymU7aoZNJnJkIJfQn3LhQxK2/486/cfoQfB64cDjnXu69J0g4U9px3q3cyura+kZ+s7C1vbO7V9w/aKk4lYQ2Scxj2QmwopwJ2tRMc9pJJMVRwGk7GF/M/PYdlYrF4kZPEupHeChYyAjWRupc9bMkcKvTfrHk2E7F885r6DdxbWeOEizR6BffeoOYpBEVmnCsVNd1Eu1nWGpGOJ0WeqmiCSZjPKRdQwWOqPKz+b1TdGKUAQpjaUpoNFe/TmQ4UmoSBaYzwnqkfnoz8S+vm+qw5mdMJKmmgiwWhSlHOkaz59GASUo0nxiCiWTmVkRGWGKiTUQFE8Lnp+h/0irbrmd715VSvbyMIw9HcAyn4MIZ1OESGtAEAhzu4RGerFvrwXq2XhatOWs5cwjfYL1+AB1jkAI=</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="ZtXx127FlGUFphtASVVZsPni/Pw=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSlxLgruBHcVLAPaEOZTCft0MkkzkyEEvoTblwo4tbfceffOH0IPg9cOJxzL/feE6acKe0471ZhZXVtfaO4Wdra3tndK+8ftFSSSUKbJOGJ7IRYUc4EbWqmOe2kkuI45LQdji9mfvuOSsUScaMnKQ1iPBQsYgRrI3Wu+nkqXX/aL1cc26l53rmPfhPXduaowBKNfvmtN0hIFlOhCcdKdV0n1UGOpWaE02mplymaYjLGQ9o1VOCYqiCf3ztFJ0YZoCiRpoRGc/XrRI5jpSZxaDpjrEfqpzcT//K6mY78IGcizTQVZLEoyjjSCZo9jwZMUqL5xBBMJDO3IjLCEhNtIiqZED4/Rf+TVtV2Pdu7rlXq1WUcRTiCYzgFF86gDpfQgCYQ4HAPj/Bk3VoP1rP1smgtWMuZQ/gG6/UDOmKQFQ==</latexit>

Cryptolib

Kpr15
Kpb15

TLS1.2

Secure
Access

Cryptolib

ECU

CAN

TCU

TLS

Server Backend

Figure 2. Graph model of the use case example with the topological dependencies of all system and software components (derivable from a CBOM solid arrow lines) and functional dependencies (yellow dash arrow lines) and a schemed architecture overview in the lower right corner of the figure.
The information represented in this dependency graph can be derived from a CBOM following the CycloneDx format [22].

Among these visible dependencies, two subcategories
are particularly relevant: functional dependencies and
communication dependencies. The integration of these
visible dependencies into a graph model such as the one
proposed in [16] makes it possible to simulate migration
scenarios, calculate optimal sequences, and assess the
risks associated with different transition paths. However,
this modelling, however rigorous it may be, does not
cover all operational realities. Many critical relationships
escape explicit representation. This is where the concept
of implicit dependencies comes into play.
implicit dependencies refer to relationships between
cryptographic components that are not formally expressed
in dependency graphs or CBOMs. They result either
from poorly documented internal mechanisms, dynamic
configurations, or complex environmental relationships.
Their invisibility makes them all the more dangerous: they
cannot be addressed if they are not identified. Yet they are
often the cause of migration failures, loss of functionality
after deployment, or breaks in the chain of trust.
We have proposed a three level classification of these
dependencies, based on their scope and nature: intra component, inter component, and external.
Intra-component dependencies. Those dependencies concern internal relationships within a component
of the architecture inside the vehicle. In the architecture
under consideration in Fig. 3, they manifest themselves in
particular in the HPC through the secure boot mechanism.
This depends on the private key Kpr7 , used to verify the
integrity of software images. On the graph, the blue edges
leading to Kpr7 represent these functional dependencies:
all other local keys are indirectly involved in the secure
boot process. A similar situation can be observed in the
ECU, where the private key Kpr2 plays a central role in
secure boot. In addition, the pink edges indicate internal
dependencies related to the secure access function, which
relies on the K4 key and its interaction with other local keys. These dependencies, although crucial, are often
implicit because they are deeply embedded in hardware
components and do not appear explicitly in CBOMs. They
are so fragile that a unilateral modification of the key or

the associated algorithm can render the device unusable.
Inter-component dependencies. When at least
two main components of the architecture share the same
trust element, an inter-component dependency arias from
that. In the case of the vehicle, these implicit links unite,
for example, the HPC and the ECU around an identical
shared key (K8 and K1 ) Fig. 3, represented in the graph
as a common resource. Updating one of these keys or
their algorithms in one component requires immediate and
consistent propagation to the other component, otherwise
the chain of trust is broken and internal communications
fail. These dependencies are difficult to detect because
internal chains of trust are not always documented in
CBOMs and may depend on proprietary implementations.
However, they pose a major risk to the consistency and
continuity of security in the vehicle.
External dependencies. Those dependencies concern the links between an internal vehicle component
(HPC or ECU) and external infrastructure, typically a
remote server. In the graph example in Fig. 3, secure
communication between the HPC and the server is based
on TLS 1.2, with specific certificates and keys (e.g. Kpr14
on the server side). These dependencies are particularly
critical because they are beyond the direct control of the
internal organization: the server can unilaterally decide to
modify its certificates, migrate to a post-quantum algorithm or change its cryptographic policy. If the embedded components (HPC or ECU) do not keep pace with
these developments, interoperability disappears and services fail. These external dependencies therefore require
continuous monitoring mechanisms, cryptographic agility
and, in many cases, contractual coordination with the third
parties involved.
These three levels of implicit dependencies cannot be
modeled solely using standard tools such as CBOMs.
Identifying them requires in depth documentation and
testing in a real environment. Including them in a migration model requires enriching traditional graphs with
specific annotations, for example in the form of co migration constraints, implicit prerequisites, or contextual
dependencies. This illustration supports the hypothesis

Electronic Control Unit (ECU)
SW update
manager

Telecommunication Unit (TCU)
Diagnosis
service

Invehicle
Communication

Server - Backend

Secure SW
update

Generate SW
package for
Secure SW
update

Secure onboard
communication

Secure Boot

SHA384

Secure remote
communication

TLS1.2
<latexit sha1_base64="8ynJTLRY2eKSX9amrY91FwNgciU=">AAAB7XicdVDJSgNBEK2JW4xb1KOXxiB4GmaCTOIt4EXwEsEskAyhp9NJ2vR0D909QhjyD148KOLV//Hm39hZBNcHBY/3qqiqFyWcaeN5705uZXVtfSO/Wdja3tndK+4fNLVMFaENIrlU7QhrypmgDcMMp+1EURxHnLai8cXMb91RpZkUN2aS0DDGQ8EGjGBjpeZVL/Mr016x5LneWRCcV9Fv4rveHCVYot4rvnX7kqQxFYZwrHXH9xITZlgZRjidFrqppgkmYzykHUsFjqkOs/m1U3RilT4aSGVLGDRXv05kONZ6Eke2M8ZmpH96M/Evr5OaQTXMmEhSQwVZLBqkHBmJZq+jPlOUGD6xBBPF7K2IjLDCxNiACjaEz0/R/6RZdv3ADa7PSrXyMo48HMExnIIPFajBJdShAQRu4R4e4cmRzoPz7LwsWnPOcuYQvsF5/QCS+Y8e</latexit>

Secure SW
update

Secure Boot

Secure onboard
communication

K17

Secure
Access

Secure remote
communication

Kpb16
<latexit sha1_base64="KrAq9af5NseKeV59vgMqigo1om8=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSlxLoruBHcVLAPaEOZTCft0MkkzkyEEvoTblwo4tbfceffOE0r+Dxw4XDOvdx7T5BwprTjvFuFldW19Y3iZmlre2d3r7x/0FZxKgltkZjHshtgRTkTtKWZ5rSbSIqjgNNOMLmY+507KhWLxY2eJtSP8EiwkBGsjdS9GmRJ4HqzQbni2E7N887r6DdxbSdHBZZoDspv/WFM0ogKTThWquc6ifYzLDUjnM5K/VTRBJMJHtGeoQJHVPlZfu8MnRhliMJYmhIa5erXiQxHSk2jwHRGWI/VT28u/uX1Uh3W/YyJJNVUkMWiMOVIx2j+PBoySYnmU0MwkczcisgYS0y0iahkQvj8FP1P2lXb9WzvulZpVJdxFOEIjuEUXDiDBlxCE1pAgMM9PMKTdWs9WM/Wy6K1YC1nDuEbrNcPHuiQAw==</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="3JxRPaJeo4lRUxG+au1NzIiTGvA=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSljXVXcCO4qWAf0IYymU7aoZNJnJkIJfQn3LhQxK2/486/cfoQfB64cDjnXu69J0g4U9px3q3cyura+kZ+s7C1vbO7V9w/aKk4lYQ2Scxj2QmwopwJ2tRMc9pJJMVRwGk7GF/M/PYdlYrF4kZPEupHeChYyAjWRupc9bNEutVpv1hybKfieec19Ju4tjNHCZZo9ItvvUFM0ogKTThWqus6ifYzLDUjnE4LvVTRBJMxHtKuoQJHVPnZ/N4pOjHKAIWxNCU0mqtfJzIcKTWJAtMZYT1SP72Z+JfXTXVY8zMmklRTQRaLwpQjHaPZ82jAJCWaTwzBRDJzKyIjLDHRJqKCCeHzU/Q/aZVt17O960qpXl7GkYcjOIZTcOEM6nAJDWgCAQ738AhP1q31YD1bL4vWnLWcOYRvsF4/ADXTkBI=</latexit>

AES256
GCM

AES128
ECB

<latexit sha1_base64="KsxkpiBn6S1rS716vsBCpuPSoOU=">AAAB73icdVDLSgNBEOz1GeMr6tHLYBA8LbPRbHIMeBG8RDAPSJYwO5kkQ2Zn15lZISz5CS8eFPHq73jzb5w8BBUtaCiquunuChPBtcH4w1lZXVvf2Mxt5bd3dvf2CweHTR2nirIGjUWs2iHRTHDJGoYbwdqJYiQKBWuF48uZ37pnSvNY3ppJwoKIDCUfcEqMldrXvSxRHp72CkXsYr+CMUbYLePKue9bUrKsWkaei+cowhL1XuG9249pGjFpqCBadzycmCAjynAq2DTfTTVLCB2TIetYKknEdJDN752iU6v00SBWtqRBc/X7REYirSdRaDsjYkb6tzcT//I6qRlUg4zLJDVM0sWiQSqQidHsedTnilEjJpYQqri9FdERUYQaG1HehvD1KfqfNEuu57v+zUWxVlrGkYNjOIEz8KACNbiCOjSAgoAHeIJn5855dF6c10XrirOcOYIfcN4+Af+jj+0=</latexit>

HMAC
SHA256

RSA2048

<latexit sha1_base64="3s+Mo2pFEvW/WwmHu1TYJGv7JLo=">AAAB7HicdVBNS8NAEJ34WetX1aOXxSJ4Cknpl7eCF8FLBdMW2lA22027dLMJuxuhhP4GLx4U8eoP8ua/cdtGUNEHA4/3ZpiZFyScKe04H9ba+sbm1nZhp7i7t39wWDo67qg4lYR6JOax7AVYUc4E9TTTnPYSSXEUcNoNplcLv3tPpWKxuNOzhPoRHgsWMoK1kbybYVabD0tlx645bqXZRI7tLGFIpVZtVC+RmytlyNEelt4Ho5ikERWacKxU33US7WdYakY4nRcHqaIJJlM8pn1DBY6o8rPlsXN0bpQRCmNpSmi0VL9PZDhSahYFpjPCeqJ+ewvxL6+f6rDpZ0wkqaaCrBaFKUc6RovP0YhJSjSfGYKJZOZWRCZYYqJNPkUTwten6H/Sqdhu3a7fVsutSh5HAU7hDC7AhQa04Bra4AEBBg/wBM+WsB6tF+t11bpm5TMn8APW2yffaY61</latexit>

K5

<latexit sha1_base64="Bl2LDgiZ5LAQKvPOMcfNZQlcu5U=">AAAB7HicdVBNS8NAEJ34WetX1aOXxSJ4KklIP7wVvAheKpi20Iay2W7bpZtN2N0IJfQ3ePGgiFd/kDf/jds2goo+GHi8N8PMvDDhTGnb/rDW1jc2t7YLO8Xdvf2Dw9LRcVvFqSTUJzGPZTfEinImqK+Z5rSbSIqjkNNOOL1a+J17KhWLxZ2eJTSI8FiwESNYG8m/GWTefFAq25Wq7biNBrIr9hKGuFWv7l0iJ1fKkKM1KL33hzFJIyo04VipnmMnOsiw1IxwOi/2U0UTTKZ4THuGChxRFWTLY+fo3ChDNIqlKaHRUv0+keFIqVkUms4I64n67S3Ev7xeqkeNIGMiSTUVZLVolHKkY7T4HA2ZpETzmSGYSGZuRWSCJSba5FM0IXx9iv4nbbfi1Cq1W6/cdPM4CnAKZ3ABDtShCdfQAh8IMHiAJ3i2hPVovVivq9Y1K585gR+w3j4B3eSOtA==</latexit>

Kpb2
<latexit sha1_base64="DHu0w+0gqislQePGhZ8KGaQScyg=">AAAB7nicdVDLSsNAFL3xWeur6tLNYBFchST05a7gRnBTwT6gDWUynbRDJ5MwMxFK6Ee4caGIW7/HnX/jtI2gogcuHM65l3vvCRLOlHacD2ttfWNza7uwU9zd2z84LB0dd1ScSkLbJOax7AVYUc4EbWumOe0lkuIo4LQbTK8WfveeSsVicadnCfUjPBYsZARrI3VvhlkSePNhqezYVcf1Gg3k2M4ShnjVSr1yidxcKUOO1rD0PhjFJI2o0IRjpfquk2g/w1Izwum8OEgVTTCZ4jHtGypwRJWfLc+do3OjjFAYS1NCo6X6fSLDkVKzKDCdEdYT9dtbiH95/VSHDT9jIkk1FWS1KEw50jFa/I5GTFKi+cwQTCQztyIywRITbRIqmhC+PkX/k45nuzW7dlspN708jgKcwhlcgAt1aMI1tKANBKbwAE/wbCXWo/Viva5a16x85gR+wHr7BGd4j5g=</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="IYNai0B5dFwNtFQY87OI0Kljcyg=">AAAB7HicdVBNS8NAEJ3Ur1q/qh69LBbBU0hqv7wVvAheKpi20Iay2W7bpZtN2N0IJfQ3ePGgiFd/kDf/jds2goo+GHi8N8PMvCDmTGnH+bBya+sbm1v57cLO7t7+QfHwqK2iRBLqkYhHshtgRTkT1NNMc9qNJcVhwGknmF4t/M49lYpF4k7PYuqHeCzYiBGsjeTdDNKL+aBYcuyq45YbDeTYzhKGlKuVeuUSuZlSggytQfG9P4xIElKhCcdK9Vwn1n6KpWaE03mhnygaYzLFY9ozVOCQKj9dHjtHZ0YZolEkTQmNlur3iRSHSs3CwHSGWE/Ub28h/uX1Ej1q+CkTcaKpIKtFo4QjHaHF52jIJCWazwzBRDJzKyITLDHRJp+CCeHrU/Q/aZdtt2bXbiulZjmLIw8ncArn4EIdmnANLfCAAIMHeIJnS1iP1ov1umrNWdnMMfyA9fYJ3F+Osw==</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="g6iHyxA4J/DcL/xDkLGt9jQubB8=">AAAB7nicdVDLSsNAFL3xWeur6tLNYBFchST05a7gRnBTwT6gDWUynbRDJ5MwMxFK6Ee4caGIW7/HnX/jtI2gogcuHM65l3vvCRLOlHacD2ttfWNza7uwU9zd2z84LB0dd1ScSkLbJOax7AVYUc4EbWumOe0lkuIo4LQbTK8WfveeSsVicadnCfUjPBYsZARrI3VvhlkivfmwVHbsquN6jQZybGcJQ7xqpV65RG6ulCFHa1h6H4xikkZUaMKxUn3XSbSfYakZ4XReHKSKJphM8Zj2DRU4osrPlufO0blRRiiMpSmh0VL9PpHhSKlZFJjOCOuJ+u0txL+8fqrDhp8xkaSaCrJaFKYc6RgtfkcjJinRfGYIJpKZWxGZYImJNgkVTQhfn6L/Scez3Zpdu62Um14eRwFO4QwuwIU6NOEaWtAGAlN4gCd4thLr0XqxXleta1Y+cwI/YL19An/Yj6g=</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="WglxYiSZzQaGLf2f8+0pzcRl5Bs=">AAAB7HicdVBNS8NAEJ34WetX1aOXxSJ4Cknpl7eCF8FLBdMW2lA22027dLMJuxuhhP4GLx4U8eoP8ua/cdtGUNEHA4/3ZpiZFyScKe04H9ba+sbm1nZhp7i7t39wWDo67qg4lYR6JOax7AVYUc4E9TTTnPYSSXEUcNoNplcLv3tPpWKxuNOzhPoRHgsWMoK1kbybYebOh6WyY9cct9JsIsd2ljCkUqs2qpfIzZUy5GgPS++DUUzSiApNOFaq7zqJ9jMsNSOczouDVNEEkyke076hAkdU+dny2Dk6N8oIhbE0JTRaqt8nMhwpNYsC0xlhPVG/vYX4l9dPddj0MyaSVFNBVovClCMdo8XnaMQkJZrPDMFEMnMrIhMsMdEmn6IJ4etT9D/pVGy3btdvq+VWJY+jAKdwBhfgQgNacA1t8IAAgwd4gmdLWI/Wi/W6al2z8pkT+AHr7RPZVY6x</latexit>

AES128
ECB

<latexit sha1_base64="I2ViheU1HkLzdUTxXxzdxmTR9jY=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSlxLoruBHcVLAPaEOZTCft0MkkzkyEEvoTblwo4tbfceffOE0r+Dxw4XDOvdx7T5BwprTjvFuFldW19Y3iZmlre2d3r7x/0FZxKgltkZjHshtgRTkTtKWZ5rSbSIqjgNNOMLmY+507KhWLxY2eJtSP8EiwkBGsjdS9GmSJdGuzQbni2E7N887r6DdxbSdHBZZoDspv/WFM0ogKTThWquc6ifYzLDUjnM5K/VTRBJMJHtGeoQJHVPlZfu8MnRhliMJYmhIa5erXiQxHSk2jwHRGWI/VT28u/uX1Uh3W/YyJJNVUkMWiMOVIx2j+PBoySYnmU0MwkczcisgYS0y0iahkQvj8FP1P2lXb9WzvulZpVJdxFOEIjuEUXDiDBlxCE1pAgMM9PMKTdWs9WM/Wy6K1YC1nDuEbrNcPNE6QEQ==</latexit>

K1

K3

Kpb13
<latexit sha1_base64="TxpTyZErhY+Dat2jMFo4QoxLJDI=">AAAB73icdVDJSgNBEK2JW4xb1KOXxiB4GnoSM8kx4EXwEsEskAyhp9OTNOlZ7O4RwpCf8OJBEa/+jjf/xs4iqOiDgsd7VVTV8xPBlcb4w8qtrW9sbuW3Czu7e/sHxcOjtopTSVmLxiKWXZ8oJnjEWpprwbqJZCT0Bev4k8u537lnUvE4utXThHkhGUU84JRoI3WvB1niO5XZoFjCNnZrGGOE7SquVVzXkLJh9SpybLxACVZoDorv/WFM05BFmgqiVM/BifYyIjWngs0K/VSxhNAJGbGeoREJmfKyxb0zdGaUIQpiaSrSaKF+n8hIqNQ09E1nSPRY/fbm4l9eL9VB3ct4lKSaRXS5KEgF0jGaP4+GXDKqxdQQQiU3tyI6JpJQbSIqmBC+PkX/k3bZdlzbvbkoNcqrOPJwAqdwDg7UoAFX0IQWUBDwAE/wbN1Zj9aL9bpszVmrmWP4AevtE+vCj+A=</latexit>

AES128
CMAC

Kpr10
<latexit sha1_base64="p0+zPjNPpRIYg3JbuZrXeF9t9IA=">AAAB7HicdVDLSgNBEOyNrxhfUY9eBoPgaZmNZpNjwIvgJYJ5QBLC7GQ2GTI7u8zMCmHJN3jxoIhXP8ibf+PkIahoQUNR1U13V5AIrg3GH05ubX1jcyu/XdjZ3ds/KB4etXScKsqaNBax6gREM8ElaxpuBOskipEoEKwdTK7mfvueKc1jeWemCetHZCR5yCkxVmreDLLabFAsYRf7VYwxwm4FVy9835KyZbUK8ly8QAlWaAyK771hTNOISUMF0brr4cT0M6IMp4LNCr1Us4TQCRmxrqWSREz3s8WxM3RmlSEKY2VLGrRQv09kJNJ6GgW2MyJmrH97c/Evr5uasNbPuExSwyRdLgpTgUyM5p+jIVeMGjG1hFDF7a2Ijoki1Nh8CjaEr0/R/6RVdj3f9W8vS/XyKo48nMApnIMHVajDNTSgCRQ4PMATPDvSeXRenNdla85ZzRzDDzhvn/UwjsQ=</latexit>

K8

HMAC
SHA256
<latexit sha1_base64="MALKzjthbaXpwQWbqV76BnwzfVo=">AAAB7HicdVBNSwMxEJ2tX7V+VT16CRbB05JWu+2x4EXwUsFtC+1SsmnahmazS5IVytLf4MWDIl79Qd78N6Yfgoo+GHi8N8PMvDARXBuMP5zc2vrG5lZ+u7Czu7d/UDw8auk4VZT5NBax6oREM8El8w03gnUSxUgUCtYOJ1dzv33PlOaxvDPThAURGUk+5JQYK/k3/cyb9Ysl7GKvhjFG2K3i2oXnWVKxrF5FZRcvUIIVmv3ie28Q0zRi0lBBtO6WcWKCjCjDqWCzQi/VLCF0Qkasa6kkEdNBtjh2hs6sMkDDWNmSBi3U7xMZibSeRqHtjIgZ69/eXPzL66ZmWA8yLpPUMEmXi4apQCZG88/RgCtGjZhaQqji9lZEx0QRamw+BRvC16fof9KquGXP9W4vS43KKo48nMApnEMZatCAa2iCDxQ4PMATPDvSeXRenNdla85ZzRzDDzhvn/ImjsI=</latexit>

K6

RSA2048

Kpb7

Kpb11

<latexit sha1_base64="Io/StyVG/Xr1qjoUYiaiHf1FHWo=">AAAB7nicdVDLSgMxFM3UV62vqks3wSK4GjLVznRZcCO4qWAf0A4lk2ba0EwmJBmhDP0INy4Ucev3uPNvTB+Cih64cDjnXu69J5KcaYPQh1NYW9/Y3Cpul3Z29/YPyodHbZ1mitAWSXmquhHWlDNBW4YZTrtSUZxEnHaiydXc79xTpVkq7sxU0jDBI8FiRrCxUudmkMsomA3KFeQiP0AIQeTWUHDh+5ZULavXoOeiBSpgheag/N4fpiRLqDCEY617HpImzLEyjHA6K/UzTSUmEzyiPUsFTqgO88W5M3hmlSGMU2VLGLhQv0/kONF6mkS2M8FmrH97c/Evr5eZuB7mTMjMUEGWi+KMQ5PC+e9wyBQlhk8twUQxeyskY6wwMTahkg3h61P4P2lXXc93/dvLSqO6iqMITsApOAceCEADXIMmaAECJuABPIFnRzqPzovzumwtOKuZY/ADztsngEmPqQ==</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="pdSV13NnYKSUugsyzxL8tHbBX+w=">AAAB73icdVDLSgNBEOz1GeMr6tHLYBA8LbPRbHIMeBG8RDAPSJYwO5kkQ2Zn15lZISz5CS8eFPHq73jzb5w8BBUtaCiquunuChPBtcH4w1lZXVvf2Mxt5bd3dvf2CweHTR2nirIGjUWs2iHRTHDJGoYbwdqJYiQKBWuF48uZ37pnSvNY3ppJwoKIDCUfcEqMldrXvSwJPW/aKxSxi/0Kxhhht4wr575vScmyahl5Lp6jCEvUe4X3bj+macSkoYJo3fFwYoKMKMOpYNN8N9UsIXRMhqxjqSQR00E2v3eKTq3SR4NY2ZIGzdXvExmJtJ5Eoe2MiBnp395M/MvrpGZQDTIuk9QwSReLBqlAJkaz51GfK0aNmFhCqOL2VkRHRBFqbER5G8LXp+h/0iy5nu/6NxfFWmkZRw6O4QTOwIMK1OAK6tAACgIe4AmenTvn0XlxXhetK85y5gh+wHn7BOi4j94=</latexit>

Kpb12
<latexit sha1_base64="bGwe8jhhBta8EZ0PbeLNSY8xRAQ=">AAAB73icdVDJSgNBEK1xjXGLevTSGARPQ89oJjkGvAheIpgFkiH0dHqSJj2L3T1CGPITXjwo4tXf8ebf2FkEFX1Q8Hiviqp6QSq40hh/WCura+sbm4Wt4vbO7t5+6eCwpZJMUtakiUhkJyCKCR6zpuZasE4qGYkCwdrB+HLmt++ZVDyJb/UkZX5EhjEPOSXaSJ3rfp4Gjjvtl8rYxl4VY4ywXcHVc88zxDWsVkGOjecowxKNfum9N0hoFrFYU0GU6jo41X5OpOZUsGmxlymWEjomQ9Y1NCYRU34+v3eKTo0yQGEiTcUazdXvEzmJlJpEgemMiB6p395M/MvrZjqs+TmP00yzmC4WhZlAOkGz59GAS0a1mBhCqOTmVkRHRBKqTURFE8LXp+h/0nJtx7O9m4ty3V3GUYBjOIEzcKAKdbiCBjSBgoAHeIJn6856tF6s10XrirWcOYIfsN4+Aeo9j98=</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="zBqWZPl193xeSdoPpqvaw+GnAgU=">AAAB73icdVDLSgNBEOz1GeMr6tHLYBA8LbPRbHIMeBG8RDAPSJYwO5kkQ2Zn15lZISz5CS8eFPHq73jzb5w8BBUtaCiquunuChPBtcH4w1lZXVvf2Mxt5bd3dvf2CweHTR2nirIGjUWs2iHRTHDJGoYbwdqJYiQKBWuF48uZ37pnSvNY3ppJwoKIDCUfcEqMldrXvSxRnjftFYrYxX4FY4ywW8aVc9+3pGRZtYw8F89RhCXqvcJ7tx/TNGLSUEG07ng4MUFGlOFUsGm+m2qWEDomQ9axVJKI6SCb3ztFp1bpo0GsbEmD5ur3iYxEWk+i0HZGxIz0b28m/uV1UjOoBhmXSWqYpItFg1QgE6PZ86jPFaNGTCwhVHF7K6Ijogg1NqK8DeHrU/Q/aZZcz3f9m4tirbSMIwfHcAJn4EEFanAFdWgABQEP8ATPzp3z6Lw4r4vWFWc5cwQ/4Lx9AgE3j+4=</latexit>

Kpr14

Implicite dependencies:
1. Security dependency: Shared keys
2. Security dependency: Secure boot
3. Security dependency: Secure Access
4. Communication dependency
5. Functional dependency

Kpr11

K4
<latexit sha1_base64="UMuhbYdyjZ+rBdQmhtFGv3iDXAU=">AAAB7nicdVDLSgMxFM3UV62vqks3wSK4GjLVznRZcCO4qWAf0A4lk2ba0EwmJBmhDP0INy4Ucev3uPNvTB+Cih64cDjnXu69J5KcaYPQh1NYW9/Y3Cpul3Z29/YPyodHbZ1mitAWSXmquhHWlDNBW4YZTrtSUZxEnHaiydXc79xTpVkq7sxU0jDBI8FiRrCxUudmkEsVzAblCnKRHyCEIHJrKLjwfUuqltVr0HPRAhWwQnNQfu8PU5IlVBjCsdY9D0kT5lgZRjidlfqZphKTCR7RnqUCJ1SH+eLcGTyzyhDGqbIlDFyo3ydynGg9TSLbmWAz1r+9ufiX18tMXA9zJmRmqCDLRXHGoUnh/Hc4ZIoSw6eWYKKYvRWSMVaYGJtQyYbw9Sn8n7Srrue7/u1lpVFdxVEEJ+AUnAMPBKABrkETtAABE/AAnsCzI51H58V5XbYWnNXMMfgB5+0TmKmPuQ==</latexit>

Kpb14

K9

<latexit sha1_base64="BSJx6wjM/cgo/ZR+b8eyuJYZyZg=">AAAB73icdVDLSgNBEOz1GeMr6tHLYBA8LbPRbHIMeBG8RDAPSJYwO5kkQ2Zn15lZISz5CS8eFPHq73jzb5w8BBUtaCiquunuChPBtcH4w1lZXVvf2Mxt5bd3dvf2CweHTR2nirIGjUWs2iHRTHDJGoYbwdqJYiQKBWuF48uZ37pnSvNY3ppJwoKIDCUfcEqMldrXvSwJPTztFYrYxX4FY4ywW8aVc9+3pGRZtYw8F89RhCXqvcJ7tx/TNGLSUEG07ng4MUFGlOFUsGm+m2qWEDomQ9axVJKI6SCb3ztFp1bpo0GsbEmD5ur3iYxEWk+i0HZGxIz0b28m/uV1UjOoBhmXSWqYpItFg1QgE6PZ86jPFaNGTCwhVHF7K6Ijogg1NqK8DeHrU/Q/aZZcz3f9m4tirbSMIwfHcAJn4EEFanAFdWgABQEP8ATPzp3z6Lw4r4vWFWc5cwQ/4Lx9Auczj90=</latexit>

AES128
CMAC

RSA2048

<latexit sha1_base64="9sui45sGooEqjp7rjGJ2C7IPYR8=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSlxLoruBHcVLAPaEOZTCft0MkkzkyEEvoTblwo4tbfceffOE0r+Dxw4XDOvdx7T5BwprTjvFuFldW19Y3iZmlre2d3r7x/0FZxKgltkZjHshtgRTkTtKWZ5rSbSIqjgNNOMLmY+507KhWLxY2eJtSP8EiwkBGsjdS9GmRJ4NZmg3LFsZ2a553X0W/i2k6OCizRHJTf+sOYpBEVmnCsVM91Eu1nWGpGOJ2V+qmiCSYTPKI9QwWOqPKz/N4ZOjHKEIWxNCU0ytWvExmOlJpGgemMsB6rn95c/MvrpTqs+xkTSaqpIItFYcqRjtH8eTRkkhLNp4ZgIpm5FZExlphoE1HJhPD5KfqftKu269neda3SqC7jKMIRHMMpuHAGDbiEJrSAAId7eIQn69Z6sJ6tl0VrwVrOHMI3WK8fG96QAQ==</latexit>

SHA384

DH

Kpr18
<latexit sha1_base64="TmXxDDueuNigHQiyDSZnHhoOuJI=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSlxLgruBHcVLAPaEOZTCft0MkkzkyEEvoTblwo4tbfceffOH0IPg9cOJxzL/feE6acKe0471ZhZXVtfaO4Wdra3tndK+8ftFSSSUKbJOGJ7IRYUc4EbWqmOe2kkuI45LQdji9mfvuOSsUScaMnKQ1iPBQsYgRrI3Wu+nkauv60X644tlPzvHMf/Sau7cxRgSUa/fJbb5CQLKZCE46V6rpOqoMcS80Ip9NSL1M0xWSMh7RrqMAxVUE+v3eKTowyQFEiTQmN5urXiRzHSk3i0HTGWI/UT28m/uV1Mx35Qc5EmmkqyGJRlHGkEzR7Hg2YpETziSGYSGZuRWSEJSbaRFQyIXx+iv4nrarterZ3XavUq8s4inAEx3AKLpxBHS6hAU0gwOEeHuHJurUerGfrZdFasJYzh/AN1usHIfKQBQ==</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="+zHWXRXcyQhTvw04sOIFNyuZ5xU=">AAAB7HicdVDLSgNBEOz1GeMr6tHLYBA8LZNoNvEW8CJ4iWAekCxhdjKbDJmdXWZmhbDkG7x4UMSrH+TNv3HyEFS0oKGo6qa7K0gE1wbjD2dldW19YzO3ld/e2d3bLxwctnScKsqaNBax6gREM8ElaxpuBOskipEoEKwdjK9mfvueKc1jeWcmCfMjMpQ85JQYKzVv+tnltF8oYhd7VYwxwm4FV889z5KyZbUKKrl4jiIs0egX3nuDmKYRk4YKonW3hBPjZ0QZTgWb5nupZgmhYzJkXUsliZj2s/mxU3RqlQEKY2VLGjRXv09kJNJ6EgW2MyJmpH97M/Evr5uasOZnXCapYZIuFoWpQCZGs8/RgCtGjZhYQqji9lZER0QRamw+eRvC16fof9IquyXP9W4vivXyMo4cHMMJnEEJqlCHa2hAEyhweIAneHak8+i8OK+L1hVnOXMEP+C8fQL2tY7F</latexit>

Kpb10

DH

AES256
GCM

Kpb18

Certificate
Cryptolib

Certificate

AES128
CMAC

<latexit sha1_base64="LROzVsdcW2Odf/LvzD3Z6yqgqKs=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSljXVXcCO4qWAf0IYymU7aoZNJnJkIJfQn3LhQxK2/486/cfoQfB64cDjnXu69J0g4U9px3q3cyura+kZ+s7C1vbO7V9w/aKk4lYQ2Scxj2QmwopwJ2tRMc9pJJMVRwGk7GF/M/PYdlYrF4kZPEupHeChYyAjWRupc9bMkcKvTfrHk2E7F885r6DdxbWeOEizR6BffeoOYpBEVmnCsVNd1Eu1nWGpGOJ0WeqmiCSZjPKRdQwWOqPKz+b1TdGKUAQpjaUpoNFe/TmQ4UmoSBaYzwnqkfnoz8S+vm+qw5mdMJKmmgiwWhSlHOkaz59GASUo0nxiCiWTmVkRGWGKiTUQFE8Lnp+h/0irbrmd715VSvbyMIw9HcAyn4MIZ1OESGtAEAhzu4RGerFvrwXq2XhatOWs5cwjfYL1+AB1jkAI=</latexit>

<latexit sha1_base64="ZtXx127FlGUFphtASVVZsPni/Pw=">AAAB73icdVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfVZduBovgKiSlxLgruBHcVLAPaEOZTCft0MkkzkyEEvoTblwo4tbfceffOH0IPg9cOJxzL/feE6acKe0471ZhZXVtfaO4Wdra3tndK+8ftFSSSUKbJOGJ7IRYUc4EbWqmOe2kkuI45LQdji9mfvuOSsUScaMnKQ1iPBQsYgRrI3Wu+nkqXX/aL1cc26l53rmPfhPXduaowBKNfvmtN0hIFlOhCcdKdV0n1UGOpWaE02mplymaYjLGQ9o1VOCYqiCf3ztFJ0YZoCiRpoRGc/XrRI5jpSZxaDpjrEfqpzcT//K6mY78IGcizTQVZLEoyjjSCZo9jwZMUqL5xBBMJDO3IjLCEhNtIiqZED4/Rf+TVtV2Pdu7rlXq1WUcRTiCYzgFF86gDpfQgCYQ4HAPj/Bk3VoP1rP1smgtWMuZQ/gG6/UDOmKQFQ==</latexit>

Cryptolib

Kpr15
Kpb15

TLS1.2

Secure
Access

Cryptolib

ECU

Kpr7

Kpr2

CAN

TCU

TLS

Server Backend

Figure 3. Graph model of the use case example enriched with different typ of dependencies: topological dependencies of all system and software
components (derivable from a CBOM - solid arrow lines) and non-obvious or implicit dependencies (dash arrow lines).

that a migration model must combine explicit analysis
tools (graphs, CBOM) with a more in depth analysis,
integrating implicit dependencies linked to internal mechanisms, cryptographic life cycles, and interorganizational
relationships.

6. Formalization and Generation of Migration Strategies.

defining the set of all relevant dependencies Ē , i.e., all
dependencies which are relevant for migration.
The application of ζ to a system S is denoted by ζ(S).
S can be the original system C or a (potentially partially)
migrated system C[W ]. Two cases are possible:

0 (system failure)
ζ(S) =
1 (system is functional)
We assume that the oracle behaves as follows:
Hypothesis 1: No resource constraints. The oracle does not model any hardware limits: if a
migrated system fails, it is never due to a lack of
memory, computing power, or execution capacity.
Hypothesis 2: System determinism. For a given
system state, the oracle will always return the same
answer. If a migrated system is functional, resp.
fails, we will get the same answer for the same
system when asking the oracle at another time.
Hypothesis 3: Any system failure that occurs
after migration reveals an unidentified dependency. A failure always means that a relevant
dependency has not being met (a migration must
be performed first). In the case of mutual relevant
dependencies, this means that two nodes have to
be migrated together.

In order to move beyond the conceptual analysis of
dependencies required for migration, this section gives a
general formal framework for the formulation, analysis,
and verification of migration strategies. The validity of
the framework is illustrated by the application of it to the
analysis of an exemplary algorithm.
We denote the system under consideration, i.e., a
system subject to migration as C . C is characterized by
a migration graph G = (V, E), a migration function
µ : V → V ′ , an execution oracle ζ and the test functions
P . G and Ē have already been formalized and described
in Sec. 4 and Sec. 5. µ, ζ and P are formalized in
this section. On the basis of these concepts, we then
formulate and analyze a clustering and detection algorithm
that yields a valid migration strategy.

•

6.1. Migration

We therefore assume, that an oracle ζ satisfies:

The bijective function µ : V → V ′ models the concept
of uniquely assigning a PQC counterpart (migrated node)
v ′ := µ(v) to each v ∈ V (unmigrated node).
For a set, W ⊆ V the term C[W ] denotes the system C
with all nodes v ∈ W being replaced by their PQC counterpart v ′ = µ(v). For a sequence of sets [W1 , . . . , Wℓ ]
with
 Wi ⊆ V , the term C[W1 ] . . . [Wℓ ] denotes the system
C ∪ℓi=1 Wi .

6.2. Oracle
ζ models the concept of running a system and checking for errors. This will be the basis (see Sec. 6.4) for

•

•

•
•
•

The oracle ζ behaves like a function.
ζ(C) = 1 (valid empty migration)
ζ(C[V ]) = 1 (valid total migration)

6.3. Test functions
The purpose of the test function is to detect all relevant
dependencies between the system components. It constitutes an analysis layer that identifies implicit, hidden, or
invisible relationships that do not appear in the explicit
migration graph G = (V, E). Each system inspection
activity is represented by a partial test function. A partial
test function evaluates whether a particular type of dependency exists between two nodes. Test can detect functional

links, key sharing, dependencies related to secure boot, or
interactions with an external server, etc. (cf. also Sec. 5.2).
Let V be the set of system components. We define a set
of partial test functions: T = {f1 , f2 , . . . , fk } where each
ft : V ×V → {0, 1} corresponds to a specific dependency
category (cf. also Sec. 5.2). So the test function is the
global test predicate P defined by:
(
W
1, if f ∈T f (v, w) = 1,
P (v, w) =
0, otherwise.
The set of relevant dependencies detected is then:
Ē = {(v, w) ∈ V × V | P (v, w) = 1}.

Definition 6.1 (Consistent test function). A test function
P is consistent if and only if it is reflexive and transitive.
In fact, reflexivity expresses that a component necessarily
possesses all the properties evaluated by a test: whether it
is a functional, cryptographic, or structural property, any
inspection applied to a node as itself must naturally be
true. Transitivity, on the other hand, models the propagation of implicit dependencies: if a test detects that
u depends on v (for a key, a service, or a resource),
and that v itself depends on w for the same reason,
then u necessarily depends on w. Thus, transitive closure
ensures that the detected dependencies accurately reflect
the system’s actual functional structure.
V → K
where K ⊂ V dev 7→ k
notes the set of nodes representing keys. The function f
associates each node v with the key k it uses. We then
define the key sharing test function as follows:
(
1
if f (v) = f (w)
P (v, w) =
0
otherwise

Example. Let:

f

(migrate nodes Ck+1 )

for k = 1, . . . , ℓ,
The strategy M is said to be valid if and only if:
ζ(Sk ) = 1

∀k = 1, . . . , ℓ

In other words, at each step, the system obtained after
the successive migration of C1 , . . . , Ck must be declared
functional by the oracle.
Example. Based on the architecture of Fig. 3, let C1 , C2 ,
and C3 represent respectively the ECU, the HPC, and the
Server clusters. The migration strategy M = (C1 , C2 )
is not valid, since both ECU and HPC share an implicit dependency through the key K8 used for secure invehicle communication. Migrating C1 before C2 breaks
this hidden link and renders the system non-functional.
Consequently, e.g., strategies containing (C1 , C2 ) as a
subsequence (e.g., (C1 , C2 , C3 ) or (C3 , C1 , C2 ) are also
invalid.
Lemma 6.1 (Bad Prefix). Let M = (C1 , . . . , Cℓ ) be an
invalid migration strategy. Then any migration strategy
M′ = (C1 , . . . , Cℓ , Cℓ+1 , . . . , Cℓ′ ) is also invalid.
Proof. The proof follows immediately from definition 6.3.

:

In other words, the value P (v, w) = 1 means that the two
nodes v and w use exactly the same key.
In the specific case of the key sharing test defined
above, consistency is immediate:
•
reflexivity P (v, w) = 1 is verified since each node
uses the same key as itself, i.e., f (v) = f (w);
•
transitivity P (u, v) = 1 and P (v, w) = 1 implies
f (u) = f (v) = f (w), therefore P (u, w) = 1.
Thus, the key sharing test is indeed a consistent test
function

6.4. Migration Strategy
The ultimate goal of a migration algorithm is to identify a valid migration strategy. A migration strategy M
is a sequence (C1 , ..., Cℓ ) of disjoint sets Ci ⊆ V for
i = 1, . . . , ℓ. A migration strategy is valid if the migration
sequence C1 , . . . , Cℓ does not fail. The concept of a valid
migration strategy is formalized as follows:
Definition 6.2 (Complete migration strategy). A migration strategy M = (C1 , . . . , Cℓ ) is complete, if ∪ℓi=1 Ci =
V.
Definition 6.3 (Valid migration strategy based on oracle).
Let M = (C1 , . . . , Cℓ ) be a migration strategy. We
recursively define a sequence of systems:
S0 := C

Sk := Sk−1 [Ck ]

(no migrated nodes),

6.5. Dependency Types
The edge set E in the migration graph G = (V, E)
contains all initially known dependencies, which we have
denoted as explicit dependencies in Sec. 5. Based on the
concept of valid migration strategies and in accordance
with Sec. 5 we can now define the concepts relevant
dependency and implicit dependency.
Definition 6.4 (Relevant dependencies). An edge u →
v ∈ V × V is a relevant dependency if there is no valid
migration strategy M = (C1 , . . . , Cℓ ) with u ∈ Ci and
v ∈ Cj and i < j . The set Ē is defined as the set of all
relevant dependencies.
In other words, the set Ē contains all edges u → v
where it u cannot be migrated before v .
Definition 6.5 (Implicit dependencies). Any edge u →
v ∈ Ē \ E is called implicit dependency.
Example. Explicit versus implicit dependencies:
•

•

Explicit dependency In Fig. 3, the Secure
boot service explicitly depends on the cryptographic library Cryptolib, which implements HMAC SHA256. This relationship is represented in the CBOM by a visible edge
(Secure boot, Cryptolib) ∈ E , and satisfies the
condition P (Secure boot, Cryptolib) = 1, because
the migration of Cryptolib conditions that of
the service. It is therefore an explicit dependency.
Implicit dependency In Fig. 3, the ECU’s Secure
Boot mechanism relies on a closed chain of trust
between the private key Kpr2 , and different keys:
the public key Kpb2 , K1 , K2 , K3 , K4 , K5 . These
internal links do not appear in the graph E , but the
test function P (Kpb2 , Kpr2 ) = P (Kpb2 , K1 )... =

1, and the oracle ζ indicate that an isolated migration of one of these keys before Kpr2 invalidates the system. This relationship, which is
not represented in E , thus constitutes an implicit
dependency.

This guarantees that the SCCs and the choice of the
next migratable cluster are based only on essential direct
dependencies, without pollution from redundant edges.
In order to show the correctness of the algorithm, we
have to prove:
•

6.6. Consistency
Ē denotes the theoretical concept of all dependencies
which are relevant for migration. The oracle and the test
function model two complementary practical approaches
for detecting all dependencies u → v ∈ Ē. The test
function models (static) analysis activities, whereas the
oracle models the run-time-validation of the system (dynamic analysis). The oracle and the test function should
be consistent with each other, i.e., agree on the set Ē .
Let us consider a migration strategy M = (C1 , ...Cℓ ).

Definition 6.6 (Consistency of ζ and P ). The test predicate P and the oracle ζ are consistent with each other
if and only if ∀v, w ∈ V : P (v, w) = 1 ⇐⇒ there is no
valid migration strategy M = (C1 , . . . , Cℓ ) with v ∈ Ci
and w ∈ Cj and i < j .
Remark (Sufficient Consistency Condition). The validity
of the condition
∀v, w ∈ V : P (v, w) = 1
⇐=

there is no valid migration strategy M = (C1 , . . . , Cℓ )
with v ∈ Ci and ∈ Cj and i < j

•

•

that the algorithm always terminates after a finite
number of steps;
that the generated sequence is correct, meaning
that each migration step validated by the algorithm
is indeed acceptable for the oracle ζ ;
that the sequence
is complete, that is, that it covers
S
all nodes: C∈S C = V.

Lemma 6.2 (Termination). Under the assumption of joint
consistency between P and, ζ The migration algorithm
terminates after a finite number of iterations.
Proof. see A.1
Lemma 6.3 (correction). Under the assumption of joint
consistency between P and ζ . At any point during the
execution of the algorithm, the migration sequence S
constructed so far is valid, that is:
ζ(C[S]) = 1.

Proof. see A.2
Lemma 6.4 (Completeness). Under the assumption of
joint consistency between P and ζ The final migration
sequence S covers all nodes:
[
C = V.
C∈S

is sufficient for the validity of the algorithm in Sec. 6.7.

Proof. see A.3

6.7. Clustering and Detection algorithm

Theorem 6.5 (Complete correctness of the algorithm).
Under the assumption of joint consistency between P and
ζ , the algorithm 1:

Definition 6.7 (Transitive reduction). Given a directed
graph G = (V, E), the transitive reduction of G is
the smallest graph Gred = (V, Ered ) such that G and
Gred have exactly the same reachability relation. An
edge (u, w) is removed whenever there exists a path
u ⇝ v ⇝ w that makes the direct edge redundant.
Thus, the reduction eliminates unnecessary edges while
preserving the dependency structure of the graph.
Algorithm 1 describes the procedure used to traverse
the migration graph G and to detect implicit dependencies.
It relies on
1)
2)
3)

a depth-first search (DFS) to examine each pair
of nodes and dynamically enrich the set of dependencies
and subsequent clustering of co-dependent nodes
the systematic use of transitive reduction to maintain a migration graph that is both correct and
redundancy-free.

The clustering is implemented via graph condensation, as
described in Sec. 4, and in our algorithm, the transitive
reduction plays a crucial role at two points:
•
•

immediately after the construction of the initial
migration graph E ,
and on the condensed graph E/c after each discovery of an implicit dependency.

•
•
•

terminates after a finite number of iterations;
returns a sequence S such that each prefix is
validated by ζ (correctness);
the sequence S covers all nodes V (completeness).

Consequently, the algorithm terminates with a migration
strategy valid and complete.
Proof. see A.4

7. Conclusion
This paper argues that large scale PQC migration
requires going beyond coarse component inventories and
explicitly modeled protocol dependencies. We therefore
introduce a dependency centered model that refines initial migration graphs by treating cryptographic primitives,
keys and security controls as first-class nodes, thereby also
making otherwise implicit dependencies visible.
Building on the graph model of [16], we enrich the notion of migration graphs with a taxonomy for migration related dependencies (explicit, implicit, relevant, redundant
dependencies) and a taxonomy based on functional nature
(protocol, functional and communication dependencies as
well as intra-component, inter-component and external
implicit dependencies). The second taxonomy guides the

Algorithm 1: Cluster migration with implicit dependency detection
Input:
1) directed graph G = (V, E)
2) test function P : V × V → {0, 1}
3) oracle ζ
Result: Valid migration sequence S on the condensed graph;
Step 0: Transitively reduce E ;
2
E ← transitive reduction of E ;
3 Step 1: Strongly connected components;
4
{C1 , . . . , Ck } ← strongly connected components of E :;
5 Step 2: Condensation graph;
6
V /c ← {C1 , . . . , Ck };
7
E/c ← {(Ci , Cj ) | ∃(u, v) ∈ E, u ∈ Ci , v ∈ Cj , i ̸= j};
8
E/c ← transitive reduction of E/c;
9 Initialize visited(Ci ) ← f alse for all Ci ∈ V /c;
10 Initialize migration sequence S ← [ ];
11 while there exists Ci ∈ V /c with visited(Ci ) = f alse do
12
Select a cluster Ci such that ∀Cj , (Ci , Cj ) ∈
/ E/c;
13
if ζ(C[S ∪ Ci ]) = 1 then
14
visited(Ci ) ← true;
15
S ← S ∪ Ci ;
16
E/c ← transitive reduction of E/c;
1

17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32

else
Invisible dependency detection:
Step A: Identify one blocking cluster and add implicit dependency
foreach u ∈ Ci do
foreach v ∈ (V \ Ci ) \ S do
if P (u, v) = 1 then
E ← E ∪ {(u, v), (v, u)} ;
break;
Step B: Recompute SCCs after fusion
V /c ← SCCs(E);
Step C: Recompute condensation graph
E/c ← ∅;
foreach Cx ∈ V /c do
foreach Cy ̸= Cx do
if ∃(a, b) ∈ E with a ∈ Cx and b ∈ Cy then
E/c ← (Cx , Cy );

35

Step E: Reset visited flags
foreach Cnew ∈ V /c do
visited(Cnew ) ← f alse;

36

Step F: E/c ← transitive reduction of E/c;

33
34

37

return (S);

migration graph refinement by helping identify implicit
dependencies.
An automotive case study with ECU, TCU and backend components shows that key hierarchies for secure
boot, shared MAC keys and secure-access mechanisms
induce constraints that are not captured at CBOM level,
but are detected and encoded by our algorithm 1 into joint
migration clusters.
Finally, we formalized PQC migration as a combination of a node wise migration function, a family of
dependency specific test functions aggregated into a global
predicate, and an execution oracle. Within this framework
we formally defined the migration related dependency

types, formulated a clustering and detection algorithm and
proved that the algorithm terminates with a migration
sequence that is valid and complete with respect to the
discovered dependencies.
This paper provides three major insights: (1) Key management and security controls drive migration complexity.
(2) Cluster-based strategies require explicit treatment of
implicit dependencies. (3) CBOMs, graph models, and
tooling should form an iteratively refined workflow. Future
work integrates risk and cost, relaxes assumptions (e.g. on
the oracle), automates test derivation, and scales to larger
infrastructures.

References
[1]

[2]

[3]

[4]

[5]
[6]

[7]

[8]

[9]

[10]
[11]

[12]

[13]

Post-Quantum Cryptography Coalition (PQCC) and
The MITRE Corporation. Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC) Migration Roadmap. Technical Report 24-03931-7. Approved for public release. Distribution unlimited. ©2025 The MITRE Corporation. The MITRE Corporation, May 2025. URL:
https://pqcc.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/PQCMigration-Roadmap-PQCC-2.pdf.
Gorjan Alagic et al. Status Report on the Third
Round of the NIST Post-Quantum Cryptography
Standardization Process. en. 2022-09-29 04:09:00
2022. DOI: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8413upd1.
Nouri Alnahawi et al. “On the State of
Post-Quantum Cryptography Migration”. In:
Gesellschaft für Informatik, Bonn, 2021,
pp. 907–941. ISBN: 978-3-88579-708-1. DOI:
10.18420/informatik2021-078.
Alessandro Amadori et al. The PQC Migration
Handbook: Guidelines for Migrating to PostQuantum Cryptography – Revised and Extended
Second Edition. Tech. rep. TNO, Applied Cryptography et al., Dec. 2024. URL: https://publications.
tno . nl / publication / 34643386 / fXcPVHsX / TNO 2024-pqc-en.pdf.
ANSSI. Avis de l’ANSSI sur la migration vers la
cryptographie post-quantique (suivi 2023). Tech.
rep. ANSSI, 2023.
AUTOSAR. Specification of Secure Onboard Communication AUTOSAR CP R23-11. Ed. by Standard.
2023. URL: https : / / www. autosar. org / fileadmin /
standards / R23 - 11 / CP / AUTOSAR CP SWS
SecureOnboardCommunication.pdf.
Manuel Barbosa et al. X-Wing: The Hybrid
KEM You’ve Been Looking For. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2024/039. 2024. DOI: 10 . 62056 /
a3qj89n4e. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/039.
Carlos Benitez. Mapping Quantum Threats: An Engineering Inventory of Cryptographic Dependencies. 2025. arXiv: 2509 . 24623 [cs.CR]. URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.24623.
Stefan Ehlen et al. Kryptografie quantensicher
gestalten. Grundlagen, Entwicklungen. Tech. rep.
Empfehlungen. Technical report. BSI-Bro21/01,
Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik, 2021.
ETSI. CYBER; Quantum-Safe Cryptography
(QSC); A Repeatable Framework for QuantumSafe Migrations. Tech. rep. TR 104 016. 2024.
European Commission. Commission Recommendation (EU) 2024/1101 of 11 April 2024 on a Coordinated Implementation Roadmap for the transition
to Post-Quantum Cryptography. https : / / eur - lex .
europa . eu / eli / reco / 2024 / 1101 / oj. OJ L 1101,
12.4.2024. Apr. 2024.
Federal Office for Information Security. Cryptographic Mechanisms: Recommendations and Key
Lengths. Technical Guideline BSI TR-02102-1.
BSI, Jan. 2025.
Lov K Grover. “A fast quantum mechanical algorithm for database search”. In: Proceedings of the

[14]

[15]

[16]
[17]
[18]

[19]
[20]

[21]

[22]

[23]

[24]

[25]

twenty-eighth annual ACM symposium on Theory
of computing. 1996, pp. 212–219.
Khondokar Fida Hasan et al. “A Framework for
Migrating to Post-Quantum Cryptography: Security
Dependency Analysis and Case Studies”. en. In:
IEEE Access 12 (2024), pp. 23427–23450. ISSN:
2169-3536. DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2024.3360412.
(Visited on 09/17/2025).
Panos Kampanakis and Tancrède Lepoint. “Vision
paper: Do we need to change some things? Open
questions posed by the upcoming post-quantum migration to existing standards and deployments”. In:
International Conference on Research in Security
Standardisation. Springer. 2023, pp. 78–102.
Daniel Loebenberger et al. On the Formalization of
Cryptographic Migration. 2025. arXiv: 2408.05997
[cs.CR]. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.05997.
Chujiao Ma et al. “CARAF: crypto agility risk assessment framework”. In: Journal of Cybersecurity
7.1 (2021), tyab013.
Georg Macher et al. “A Review of Threat Analysis
and Risk Assessment Methods in the Automotive
Context”. In: Computer Safety, Reliability, and Security. Ed. by Amund Skavhaug, Jérémie Guiochet,
and Friedemann Bitsch. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2016, pp. 130–141. ISBN: 978-3319-45477-1.
Justin J. Miller. “Graph Database Applications and
Concepts with Neo4j”. In: 2013. URL: https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:17523312.
Micha Moffie et al. Cryptoscope: Analyzing cryptographic usages in modern software. 2025. arXiv:
2503.19531 [cs.CR]. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/
2503.19531.
Christian Näther et al. “Migrating Software Systems Toward Post-Quantum Cryptography-A Systematic Literature Review”. In: IEEE Access 12
(2024), pp. 132107–132126. DOI: 10 . 1109 /
ACCESS.2024.3450306.
OWASP Foundation and CycloneDX Feature Working Group on Cryptography. Authoritative Guide
to CBOM. Technical Report. Version First Edition. Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International. OWASP Foundation, Apr. 2024. URL: https:
/ / cyclonedx . org / guides / OWASP CycloneDX Authoritative-Guide-to-CBOM-en.pdf.
Gina M. Raimondo and Laurie E. Locascio. “FIPS203: Module-Lattice-Based Key-Encapsulation
Mechanism Standard”. In: Federal Information
Processing Standards Publication 203 (2025),
pp. 1–56. URL: https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/
FIPS/NIST.FIPS.203.pdf.
Gina M. Raimondo and Laurie E. Locascio. “FIPS204: Module-Lattice-Based Digital Signature Standard”. In: Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 204 (2025), pp. 1–65. URL: https:
//nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.204.
pdf.
Gina M. Raimondo and Laurie E. Locascio. “FIPS205: Stateless Hash-Based Digital Signature Standard”. In: Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 205 (2025), pp. 1–61. URL: https:

//nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.205.
pdf.
[26] Norrathep Rattanavipanon, Jakapan Suaboot, and
Warodom Werapun. “A Toolchain for Assisting
Migration of Software Executables Towards PostQuantum Cryptography”. In: IEEE Access 13
(2025), pp. 4368–4380. DOI: 10 . 1109 / ACCESS .
2024.3524309.
[27] Nicolai Schmitt et al. “On Criteria and Tooling for Cryptographic Inventories”. In: Sicherheit
2024. Bonn: Gesellschaft für Informatik e.V., 2024,
pp. 49–63. ISBN: 978-3-88579-739-5. DOI: 10 .
18420/sicherheit2024 003.
[28] Peter W Shor. “Algorithms for quantum computation: discrete logarithms and factoring”. In: Proceedings 35th annual symposium on foundations of
computer science. Ieee. 1994, pp. 124–134.
[29] Miroslaw Staron and Darko Durisic. “AUTOSAR
Standard”. In: Automotive Software Architectures:
An Introduction. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2017, pp. 81–116. ISBN: 978-3-319-586106. DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-58610-6 4. URL: https:
//doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-58610-6 4.
[30] Meena Singh Dilip Thakur et al. “Enterprise Post
Quantum Cryptography Migration Tools”. In: 2024
16th International Conference on COMmunication Systems & NETworkS (COMSNETS). 2024,
pp. 327–329. DOI: 10 . 1109 / COMSNETS59351 .
2024.10427442.

Appendix A.
Proofs
A.1. Lemma 5.1
[Termination]
Proof. Let n0 be the initial number of strongly connected
components (SCCs) of the graph G = (V, E) calculated in
”Step 1”. At each iteration of the main loop, the algorithm
performs one of the following two operations:
•

•

it successfully migrates a cluster C , marks it
visited=true and adds it to the sequence S
(the number of unvisited SCCs is decreases by 1);
or the migration fails: the algorithm detects via P
a pair (u, v) such that P (u, v) = 1, adds the edges
(u, v) and (v, u), and recalculates the SCCs; the
reciprocal addition creates a cycle between the two
SCCs containing u and v , and at least two distinct
SCCs merge, so the number of unvisited SCCs
strictly decreases.

The number of SCCs to migrate can only decrease a finite
number of times (at most n0 − 1). Between two merges,
there must be at least one successful migration (otherwise,
detection via P would immediately produce a new merge).
Therefore, the main ”While” loop cannot be infinite, and
the algorithm terminates after a finite number of iterations.

Proof. We prove the lemma using a loop invariant in the
sense of Hoare logic.
Loop invariant: At the beginning and end of each iteration of the main loop, the currently constructed sequence
S satisfies: I(S) : S is a valid migration sequence.
•

•

Initialization: Before entering the loop, the sequence is empty: S = ∅. By the consistency of
the oracle ζ , we have: ζ(C[∅]) = 1. Therefore, the
invariant is true before the first iteration.
Conservation: Suppose the invariant is true at the
beginning of an iteration, that is: S is a valid
migration sequence. Now let Ci be the next non
visited cluster. Two cases can occur:
–

The migration of cluster Ci is successful.
The algorithm tests ζ(C[S ∪ Ci ]) and, since
it is valid, it adds it to the sequence:
S ← S ∪ [Ci ].

–

•

We then have, by definition of the validity
of a migration sequence that the new S
is also a valid migration sequence. The
invariant is therefore preserved.
The migration fails. The algorithm identifies an implicit dependency via P , reconstructs the strongly connected components,
and does not modify the sequence S . Thus,
the invariant is still preserved.

Termination: Consequently, if the loop terminates, the invariant holds true. Thus, the final
sequence S provided by the algorithm is a valid
migration sequence.

Since the loop invariant is initially true, preserved at
each iteration and still true at the exit, the correction is
established.

A.3. Lemma 5.3
[Completness]
Completeness. Let S be the sequence obtained at the
termination of the algorithm. Suppose, for the sake of
contradiction,
that there exists a node x ∈ V such that
S
x∈
/ C∈S C . Then x belongs to a final SCC Cx of the
partition V /c at the time of termination. But the algorithm only terminates when all clusters have been marked
visited=true, a condition that is only satisfied if
each cluster has been successfully migrated and added
to S . Thus, the SCC Cx must be in S , a contradiction.
Therefore, no node is left out, and the union of the clusters
of S is indeed V .

A.4. Theorem5.4
[Complete correctness of the algorithm]

A.2. Lemma 5.2
[correctness]

Proof. The three points are exactly the respective conclusions of Lemma A.1, Lemma A.2 and Lemma A.3 above;
their conjunction provides the stated result.

Appendix B.
Machine-Readable Representation of the Application Example
This section provides a machine-readable representation based on a graph data based on NeoJ4 [19]. The
scripts are written in Cypher8 to model the application
example introduced in the main text (cf. Fig. 2 and 3) and
further described in appendix 3. Supplying the example as
an importable graph dataset enables readers to reconstruct
the exact graph used in the article and to explore it with
example queries (see below) as well as with their own
queries, algorithms, and tools. In the following, we briefly
describe how to import the provided Cypher script into
a Neo4J9 database and outline example queries that can
be used as a starting point for further explorations of
the application example and the method describes in this
paper.
The file setup_graph_db.cypher (provided as
supplementary material) contains the complete set of
CREATE statements required to instantiate the graph in
a graph database which supports Cypher. Executing the
script yields a graph database state that matches the structure of Fig. 3. The script has been imported into and tested
with Neo4J version 2025.10.1.10

B.1. Neo4J Installation and Data Import
This section briefly outlines the steps required to load
the example graph into a Neo4J database. For more details and alternative installation options, the official Neo4j
documentation11 should be consulted.
1)

2)

3)
4)
5)

6)

The easiest installation and usage option is provided by installing “Neo4J Desktop”. Follow
the installation instructions on https://neo4j.com/
docs/desktop/current/installation/.
Open Neo4J Desktop and create a new local
database instance. This step requires providing
a database name (e.g. pqc_mig), a username
(default: neo4j) and a corresponding password.
Start the database instance by clicking on the play
button symbol.
Connect to the database instance by clicking
on the Connect-pulldown-menu and selecting the
menu item “query”.
Paste
the
contents
of
the
file
setup_graph_db.cypher into the query
field and click on the play button symbol next
to the query field (neo4j$).
This should result in the message “Created 65
nodes, created 190 relationships, set 65 properties, added 65 labels”.

After successful execution, the database contains the
full application example as used in this article.
8. https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/
9. https://neo4j.com/product/neo4j-graph-database/
10. https://neo4j.com/release-notes/database/neo4j-2025-10-1/
11. https://neo4j.com/docs/

MATCH (n)-[r]-(m)
RETURN n, r, m;
Listing 1. display all nodes and edges

B.2. APOC Installation
Some of the below-mentioned queries require the
Neo4J library APOC to be installed. Follow the instructions on https://neo4j.com/docs/apoc/current/installation/
for this purpose and restart the database instance.

B.3. Example Queries
The remainder of this appendix presents a set of example Cypher queries that can be executed on the imported
graph. These queries illustrate how the dataset can be
explored, how the structural properties described in the
main text can be inspected, and how the example can
serve as a basis for further experiments. For ease of use
(e.g., copy-and-paste into the Neo4j Browser), all example
queries presented in this appendix are also provided in the
accompanying file example_queries.cypher.
The example queries can be pasted into the query field
and executed by clicking on the play button symbol next
to the query field. The corresponding result is displayed
below the query field. The result is displayed as a graph
if the option “Graph” is enabled at the top of the display
pane.
B.3.1. Display All Nodes and Edges. The query in Listing 1 display all contents (nodes, edges) of the database
(s. Fig. 4, Fig. 5).

Figure 4. all nodes and edges

B.3.2. Display All Direct Connections to one Node.
The query in Listing 2 displays all connections (ingoing/outgoing) to one specific node (s. Fig. 6). The specific component and node can be filtered by specifying
c.name and n.name. Clicking on one of the displayed
neighboring nodes expands the graph further.

MATCH (n:Node)-[r:explicit]->(m:Node)
WHERE EXISTS {
MATCH path = (n)-[:explicit*2..]->(m)
WHERE NONE(rel IN relationships(path)
where rel = r)
}
RETURN n, r, m;
Listing 3. display redundant explicit dependencies

Figure 5. all nodes and edges (zoomed-in)

MATCH (c:Container)-[:contains]-(n:Node)
WHERE c.name = 'TCU'
AND n.name = 'Secure SW Update'
MATCH (n:Node)-[r]-(m:Node)
RETURN n, r, m;

MATCH (n:Node)-[r:secure_access]->(m:Node)
WHERE NOT EXISTS {
MATCH (n:Node)-[:explicit*1..]->(m:Node)
}
RETURN n, r, m;
Listing 4. display all implicit dependencies based on functional key
dependencies

Listing 2. display direct connections to one node

B.3.3. Display Redundant Explicit Dependencies. The
query in Listing 3 displays redundant explicit dependencies, which are redundant in the sense that the graph can
be (further) transitively reduced by getting rid of these
dependencies (s. Fig. 7).

MATCH (n:Node)-[r:shared_keys|secure_boot|
secure_access|communication_dependency|
functional_dependency]->(m:Node)
WHERE NOT EXISTS {
MATCH (n:Node)-[:explicit*1..]->(m:Node)
}
RETURN n, r, m;
Listing 5. display all implicit dependencies

B.3.4. Display Implicit Dependencies. The query in
Listing 4 displays all implicit dependencies which are
based on a secure access dependency (s. Fig. 8). The query
in Listing 5 displays all implicit dependencies (s. Fig. 9).
B.3.5. Display Cycles. These queries require the APOC
library. The query in Listing 6 displays all cycles in
the graph (s. Fig. 10). The query in Listing 7 displays
all cycles and their relationships to the components that
contain them (s. Fig. 11).
B.3.6. Display All Edge Types. The query in Listing 8
displays all edge types in the database (s. Fig. 12).
B.3.7. Clear Database. The query in Listing 9 permanently deletes all database contents.

MATCH (n:Node)
WITH collect(n) as nodes
CALL apoc.nodes.cycles(nodes)
YIELD path RETURN path;
Listing 6. display all cycles

MATCH (n:Node)
WITH collect(n) AS nodes
CALL apoc.nodes.cycles(nodes)
YIELD path
WITH path, nodes(path) AS cycleNodes
MATCH (m:Node)-[r]-(c:Container)
WHERE m IN cycleNodes
RETURN path, m, r, c;
Listing 7. display all cycles + dependency between nodes and the three
container components (ECU; TCU; Server) (zoomed-in)

MATCH ()-[r]->()
RETURN DISTINCT type(r) AS relType
ORDER BY relType;
Listing 8. all edge types

MATCH (n)
DETACH DELETE n;
Listing 9. clear database
Figure 6. connections to one node

Figure 10. all cycles

Figure 7. redundant explicit dependencies

Figure 11. all cycles with containing components

Figure 8. implicit dependencies (secure access)

Figure 12. all edge types
Figure 9. implicit dependencies (zoomed-in)

